  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, I suggest you save it for your speech. 

    Politically, our system of parliamentary democracy has remained largely intact. There have been refinements introduced, for example, the GRC, the NCMP and the nominated MP. We have been given notice that the Elected President will be added as a new feature to our political system and indeed in our Constitution. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, at the end of 1988, 11,467 HDB flat tenants and 4,715 shop tenants were owing rent arrears as compared to 15,218 and 3,826 respectively at the end of 1987. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you making a comment or asking a question? If it is a comment, please sit down unless you are asking a question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I gave the floor to Mr Ng. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please take your seat? You will rise only when I call you. Mr Ng. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if Dr Lee would like to volunteer himself, I will pass his name to the organizers for consideration in future. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang)(for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, when a suspect is arrested and subsequently detained, it is an established procedure for the Police to inform the next-of-kin of the person arrested and, in the case of minors, the parents or guardian at the earliest appropriate opportunity. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, it is possible that some of those who have opted out may have done so out of ignorance. I hope they will reconsider their decision. There have been cases who had opted out but later came back to the Board to be re-insured and we have agreed to take them back. The scheme is basically a good scheme which was supported by all Members of Parliament, including the Non-Constituency Member, hoiyung: Sir, the Minister, of course, is right and the scheme is only cheap if more members are in the scheme. So my question really is, will the Ministry reach out and encourage those who have opted out to come back into the scheme? If more members opt out of the scheme, the premium will rise in time to come. 

    Sir, I will next dwell on clause 3 which has been dealt with by the NCMP. But I will view it from a different Looking at clause 3(1) - 

    Sir, Dr Lee has pointed out the law. Section 13 spells out basically what the HDB can do - to build flats, to develop land, to acquire land, to maintain, lease out, sale, and so forth. And if you read the old section 15, Sir, they are not given such widespread powers. At least the principle of the ultra vires rule is adhered in the old law. Sir, may I refer you to the old law, section 15(1) - 

    Sir, there is nothing to stop the Minister from approving as long as the company approved seems to be making money. This, as Dr Lee has pointed out, is not a very good policy because there will be unfair competition as the HDB companies are not stopped by the ultra vires rules. There will be a proliferation of activities. They can carry out any business they like, not necessarily related to those mentioned in section 13. As it has already been mentioned, at the ground, the Government has carried out all kinds of businesses, including maintaining funeral parlours, except they say that the Government has not gone into coffin-making. Maybe the HDB will go into this business. We will never know, because I hear it is a lucrative business. 

    Now I take the points made by Dr Lee and Mr Chiam. First of all, Sir, quite a number of comments have been made on the amendment that will enable HDB to enter into joint ventures. This amendment has two results. 

    I am not a lawyer, Mr Speaker, Sir, but I was quite dumbfounded with the interpretation of Mr Chiam that because this clause enables HDB to perform functions as approved by the Minister, it therefore follows that the HDB can form companies to carry out functions ultra vires the Companies Act. I do not see how that follows. Clause 3(1) says: 

    The second point I would like to make is the point that was much elaborated by Dr Lee. He said that HDB has formed companies which are illegal and that this is an attempt to make past illegal acts legal. I think Dr Lee knows that as far as this Government is concerned, we are always ready to be challenged on any Act and if he thinks that we have formed illegal companies, please by all means take the necessary action, take us to court, take the HDB to court to show that we have formed illegal companies. I deny certainly. All the legal advice that we have has enabled us to ensure that whatever HDB has done is within the HDB Act. 

    The other point that he made was that this amendment would enable HDB to enter into all kinds of businesses which may end up in HDB losing money. And in passing, he mentioned, "many Government investments have gone bust." I think Dr Lee owes this House an explanation on a list of Government investments that have gone bust, a list of Government investments that are doing well, a list of Government investments that are doing extremely well, to justify or to back up his statement that many Government investments have gone bust. This is news to me and I am sure it is news to many Members here. 

    The HDB was set up to build flats for the population. Earlier in the sitting today, I explained how people's aspirations have changed. And for HDB to now confine itself, as Dr Lee suggests, to just building cheap flats for rental, it is just utterly ridiculous. I do not know where to start to explain the changes that have taken place 

    On the other point that Dr Lee made, I am afraid he just read the first part of the clause and did not read further down. He said that new section 27B is unfair as it puts the liability on the owner of the vehicle when a parking offence has been committed. And he said, "Why can't we follow the provisions of the Parking Places Act?" In fact, that is exactly what is provided for in this clause. If he reads further down, new section 27B, subsection (3) says: 

    ''Notwithstanding subsection (1), [this is the one that Dr Lee quoted] no owner of a vehicle shall by virtue of this section be guilty of an offence if he - 

    (a) within 7 days after service on him ... furnishes ... the name and address of the person who was in charge of the vehicle ...'' This is exactly the point. We lifted it completely from the Parking Places Act and this, I think, meets the point that Dr Lee made. I just wish that he had read further down instead of jumping to conclusions after just reading the first section. 

    The last point is on remuneration to Board members. I cannot give the figures now. I doubt it amounts to anything very much. It is probably just enough to cover transport expenses. We do not pay Board members. All Board members give their services virtually free. But if Mr Chiam would like to put in a Question, I shall certainly give him the answer. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I really admire Dr Lee's capacity to create facts out of his ignorance by just throwing so-called examples. 

    The mortgage payment of 3-room flats, I have already explained, is almost equal to the rental for 3-room flats. And the terms for the purchase of a 3-room flat are so generous that I do not think anybody can say that he cannot afford it. In fact, the way we worked it out, anybody who is earning $500 per month should have enough in his CPF to be able to afford a 3-room flat. And if he still cannot afford that, he can rent a 1-room flat or, where it is available, a 2-room flat. So we have enough flats to meet the demand. And I think Dr Lee must really go around Singapore and find out for himself what the present situation is. It is not the early 60's. They are not. We do not have thousands of people wanting to just rent cheap flats. People now have savings. They want to buy good flats. And that is what HDB intends to provide. 

    But the main point made by the NCMP related to the new provision which provides for the offence of knowingly giving false or misleading information. This gives me an opportunity to explain a bit further and I hope, after my explanation, the NCMP will be able to give unqualified support to the Bill. It is not right, Sir, to interpret this provision as discouraging the giving of information to the CPIB. The phrase used by the NCMP was we should not discourage knowledge or information or facts which are honestly given. I completely agree with him and I would like to inform him that from the viewpoint of law and interpretation, this is exactly the scope of this provision. I would like to draw his attention to a key ingredient in the very first line of the new section 26A which says, "Any person who knowingly - ". So 

    Apart from the fact that corruption offences are serious and persons who give information must be expected at the minimum to give information in good faith, let me also explain what happens if information which is false and misleading is deliberately given. It will throw the CPIB off track. Supposing we have CPIB investigating a case involving corruption by Mr A. Now, two other persons come to CPIB and knowingly giving false information that Mr A is innocent and that the corruption was done by Mr B. If the information is given in good faith, this section does not apply at all. But if those two persons knowingly give false information, the effect is that it impedes and hinders CPIB's investigations and throws them off the track. So, far from causing any apprehensions, this protects those who give information in good faith or honestly, as the NCMP has described it, and the only persons who need to worry about this provision are persons who deliberately, wilfully and intentionally give false and misleading information. 

    With that explanation, I hope the NCMP is clear in his mind and that he and other Members can support the Bill. 

    Sir, I spent some time last night going through all the figures again. I can assure the House that both of them were indeed telling the truth. I am just amazed that such different stories can be produced using the same set of facts. Similarly, the NCMP's 

    Sir, once again, I would like to take this opportunity to clear up a contradiction in the argument put up by the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament. In one breath, he derides the across-the-board tax rebate as being more beneficial to the rich than to the poor. In terms of absolute dollars, he is not wrong. Yet, in the next breath, 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, hoiyung: May I seek a clarification from the Minister, Sir. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, we heard the Member for Potong Pasir made reference to Article 152 of the Constitution in respect of the special position of the Malays. It seems to me there is a difference of opinion in the spirit and implementation of this Article. If the Member for Potong Pasir strongly feels that the Government has breached the spirit and implementation of this Article, the onus is on him to prove it. I see no better place than to seek the finality of this spirit and implementation of this Article in a court of law. 

    Sir, just now I was listening to Mr Chiam's speech. He said that the tertiary fee measure is a violation of the Constitution. If indeed there was a contravention of the Constitution, the other Malay MPs and I would have been the first to express our outrage. I do not see how the Constitution has been breached. Has Mr Chiam consulted any renowned constitutional law expert on this issue? And has he got an opinion to back up his pronouncement? 

    But since the Member has raised the question of morality and ethics, can I ask him or the Member for Potong Pasir to comment whether they think it is ethically right or morally right for Mr Wong Hong Toy and Mr Jeyaretnam to have asked Mr Willie Lim, after the Official Receiver was appointed, to alter a crossed cheque to a cash cheque and asked him to uncross it? Was it right for them to have told Mr Willie Lim that this had to be done to prevent the Official Receiver from obtaining it? Was it right, ethically right, morally right, that by their action neither the Official Receiver nor the Workers Party's creditors received the cheque or its proceeds? We are talking about ethics and morality. Can either of the two Members comment whether it is ethically or morally right? 

  Mr Speaker: Dr Lee. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, it is Dr Lee's turn. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your question? What is your question? 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the four new blocks to be developed in the neighbourhood of Blocks 93, 95 and 96 will comprise 165 5-room and 156 Executive flats. The introduction of bigger flat types in this neighbourhood, through the development of these four blocks of flats, will help contribute to a better housing mix in the area. It will also provide additional catchment for the existing neighbourhood centre located at the junction of Bedok North Road/Bedok North Avenue 4. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, HDB is aware of the need for recreational facilities in residential neighbourhood, especially in neighbourhoods where redevelopment programmes will be initiated. It is for that reason that in my main answer I pointed out that a new playground and multi-purpose court will be provided. If there is sufficient land in the nearby areas for additional recreational facilities, I will ask HDB to consider, but we must always bear in mind that we can only do what is possible within the available land. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, as I said in the main answer, the piece of land across the road is reserved for school development. There is a need for a school in the area and if we use that piece of land to redevelop newer blocks of flats, then where do we build the school? We have to settle for a compromise. As far as this particular piece of land is concerned, we have just demolished one block of one-room flats. It is necessary to redevelop such vacant sites by building bigger and newer types of flats so as to introduce a better mix of residents into the neighbourhood. For that reason, we should continue with the development on the site vacated by the demolished one-room block and leave the vacant land across the road for school development which is also needed for the neighbourhood. 

presented by the Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

    The NCMP, hoiyung: Main and Development Estimates of Singapore for the financial year 1st April, 1991 to 31st March, 1992, contained in Paper Cmd. 6 of 1991. For convenience, I shall take the totals for each 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, would you like to move your amendment first? 

  hoiyung: Sir, in 1984, the Workers' Party rejected the proposal when we decided to introduce the NCMP scheme in Parliament. In 1988, the Workers' Party accepted two positions. In 1991, from Dr Lee's inquiry, I take it that he wants the Government to increase the number of NCMPs in Parliament. That is real progress. 

    The Government intends to have more NCMPs after the next elections, at least four, and perhaps six. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the matter has been looked into some years ago. That is how we ended up with the concept of the NCMP and also Nominated MPs. There is no need to have another electoral reform committee to look into it. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Opposition MP, hoiyung: Dr Lee, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, the Minister will give his reply first. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have already disposed of that amendment. Could you please get on with your speech? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could I ask you to speed up because we are approaching the guillotine time and we still have another amendment. 

    Mr Chiam has mentioned national service. May I ask: Would a reduction in the time, spent for national service to a shorter period help to reduce defence expenditure? Has Government formed a Committee to look into the defence expenditure, as I advocated not so very long ago, and to make recommendations as to how we could cut down defence expenditure? So if the Government should look into this, maybe that would help. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, would you allow some time for the Minister to reply. 

  The Chairman: It is guillotine time, Dr Lee. I am sorry. Encik Wan Hussin, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

    In a way, Mr Speaker, Sir, it is quite predictable that the NCMP would put some sort of amendment to the motion before the House by the Member for Tanglin. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the amendment merely re-opens an issue. It is not a new issue. The NCMP may not be aware that the proposal for the Elected President was mooted in 1984, and that the Government leaders had deliberated for a long time before coming out with a White Paper, which was debated in this House. As the NCMP mentioned, the White Paper was presented to this House in July 1988 and it was fully debated. It was debated not just in this House, but also outside of this Chamber. There were discussions at constituency level, there were letters, views expressed in the press. 

    Then, of course, in September 1988 at the general elections, the First Deputy Prime Minister put this issue before the people. And I recall him saying that he wanted to seek the mandate of the electorate so that this proposal could be put forward before the people. We all know the results of that general elections. The mandate has been given to the PAP Government to proceed with the Bill. And I am sure the NCMP does not deny that the PAP has the mandate to proceed with this Bill. 

    The Bill will be introduced by the end of the year. The provisions for implementing the principles behind the proposal would be made clear. There will be ample time for the NCMP, the other Opposition Member, and others to debate the Bill. And I am sure that it would be referred to a Select Committee and that there would be widespread public debate on the issue. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I would like to urge this House to accept Dr Lau Teik Soon's suggestion that this House rejects the amendment proposed by the NCMP. 

    Both Mr Chiam and Dr Lee seem to have very short memories. The question of the Elected President was widely debated. A White Paper was put on and discussed in this House and the Opposition made it an election issue during the last general elections, urging the electorate to deny the PAP two-thirds majority so that a constitutional amendment could not be made. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, what we want to build up is a non adversarial society and that the interest of Singpore should be above everything else. Only then can we achieve greater success in our next stage of nation building. The consultative style of government means that powers will be decentralised. In our initial stage of nation building, powers were centralised in the hands of Ministers. However, in the last few years, with the setting up of the Government Parliamentary Committees, the Feedback Unit and the NCMP system, Government powers have been gradually decentralised so that MPs and professionals and even the man-in-the-street are able to contribute to the process of government. This decentralisation of powers is in keeping with the present world trend and it will help to further stabilise our society. 

    The NCMP, Dr Lee, again just now criticised the waiver system that it is not workable. I hope he was here yesterday to listen to the Member for Jalan Besar GRC, Mr Peh Chin Hua, who described how two of his constituents who could not afford were able to obtain waiver for the operations that they required. 

    Sir, the President's brief Address is Singapore's response to the challenges of the future. It reflects our aspirations and desires for the future, to create a Singapore of excellence and distinction, developed, mature, existing in an atmosphere of stability and peace. It is not a statement of unfulfilled desires, as claimed by the Member for Potong Pasir, but is in continuation and an enhancement of the real and concrete efforts we have taken so far. 

    Dr Lee Boon Yang

     Dr Lee Boon Yang

    It is obvious, like the sentiments given by Dr Lee, that the purpose is to make it difficult for the Opposition. The PAP has tried everything - from Elected President, NMP, to now having four candidates, instead of three, in a GRC. Instead of having this dilution, the Government should show its sincere intent on having more real participation from the people and there can only be real participation in the democratic process if there are more Opposition Members in Parliament, and not to keep them out. What we want is really a two-party system in Singapore. More opposition and there shall be real participation on the part of the people and it should not try to close the doors and make it more difficult for elected Opposition members to be in Parliament. 

    The Government has tried everything - from Elected President, NCMP, NMP and the lot. But I think the Government is going to find it difficult because the people do want real representation in Parliament, as indicated by the increase in the number of votes for the Opposition in the last election. If the Government is not careful - I think it should heed the warning - the people would say enough is enough and I think there will be a backlash on the Government. The number of candidates for the Opposition in the next election, whether there are four candidates in a GRC or not, I think the people will definitely not agree with the Government and they will elect more Opposition candidates. 

  The Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Speaker, Sir, I find that there are contradictions in both Mr Chiam as's well as hoiyung: There will be a backlash. I said so. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, are you giving way to Mr Goh? 

  In Mandarin): No. At the moment, I am just trying to sum up. I did not talk in the manner of a racialist. There was no racial colour. The one whose talk has racialist colour is the Member for Potong Pasir. So I would urge him to immediately stop his racialist-coloured talk. 

  hoiyung: Perhaps to make it easier for the Member for Potong Pasir to understand, I did not say that the racial balance or the percentage of the major races must be the same. I spoke on the procreation rate. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Goh has answered your question, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have already made your clarification. 

  hoiyung: I do not think that is a clarification, Mr Chiam. You are entitled to your opinion. She is entitled to her 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, unfortunately, once again, Mr Chiam has not listened. 

  hoiyung: Sir, that is the first time I have heard of this, and it is from Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam still does not understand. You want to finish the clarification? 

  The Minister for National Development (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Speaker, Sir, I think he is completely out of order in raising this question. May I suggest that Mr Chiam move a motion in this House to debate on this subject so that there can be a full airing on the subject. 

  The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to begin by thanking all Members who have spoken in support of the Government's Budget proposals over the last two days. There have been many useful and constructive suggestions and we will take these into account in the implementation of policies. Regretfully, we have not had the same response from the two Members of the Opposition. Both Mr Chiam and Dr Lee appear to be opposing the Budget on political grounds. Because it is a Budget put up by the PAP Government it must be bad and must be opposed and attacked on principle. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, Dr Hu is not giving way. I suggest you remain seated because you had your say earlier on without any interruptions from anyone. 

  Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: I find this totally negative approach regrettable and most unfortunate as it colours everything they have said and renders it impossible for them to contribute constructively in the budget process. I am particularly disappointed at Mr Chiam as I had hoped that he would be charitable enough to admit that he has been wrong in his allegations against the Government in the past. 

    In the Budget debate of 1986, he declared that the recovery measures introduced by the Government would not work because Government's credibility with the business sector had been lost because of its inconsistent policies. It had driven away investors and that they would probably not return. This was tough talk which was difficult to counter as 1985 was a year of negative GDP growth. He was joined in these attacks by Mr J.B. Jeyaretnam who also stated in that year that he doubted that the recovery measures would work. In 1987, Mr Chiam continued his attacks emboldened perhaps by the fact that GDP growth in 1986 was only 1.8%. In 1988,his criticism became muted, possibly because the economy had grown by 8.8% in the previous year. 

    I find that Mr Chiam's inconsistencies in his criticism of Government rather unfortunate as it reflects a basic failure to understand and comprehend the PAP Government's policies which have been adhered to and practised consistently since 1963 and which have been responsible for the performance of the Singapore economy over the last 25 years. 

    Dr Lee has concentrated on the unfairness of the Budget. He has made calls to tax the rich in order to give more to the poor. The way in which we can help the lower income group is not to give more and more subsidies. I think the Member for Kebun Baru made a very salient point when he said that there is a limit to which we should give support or subsidies to the lower income group because this will eventually lead to a crutch mentality which is neither good for the people concerned nor for the country. The proper way to help them is to give all who can work jobs, and ensure that their pay is adequate for the quality of their work. This gives them a much more dignified approach to life and removes the crutch mentality. 

    For Mr Chiam and Dr Lee's benefit, I think I will digress briefly here to outline some of the basic principles which have guided the PAP Government's policies over the past years. When Singapore became independent 25 years ago, initially as part of Malaysia, it faced formidable obstacles which called into question its very existence as an independent nation. It had a small population with a high birth rate and high illiteracy. There was high unemployment and political unrest. The Treasury was practically empty and its people were either traders or largely trained to serve the British colonial system. There was neither the capital nor the technical know-how to support an indigenous industrialization programme. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I endorse what Mr Chiam has just said. The issue of the elected President was easily the most hotly debated issue in the 1988 general election. There was even a special TV forum with Government Ministers and Opposition party representatives taking part. 

    To elect an elected President, amendments have to be made to the Constitution, as has already been stressed by Mr Chiam. Are there going to be amendments to the Constitution soon? Do we have enough time to discuss the matter before the Government pushes ahead with the plan? 

 one year ago. Does this mean that he is to be retired soon? Only after one year? What is the hurry? Whatever it may be, the Constitution has first to be amended. How is that to be done? Merely by means of a simple parliamentary majority? There was a big controversy over the issue. The PAP, let us not forget, had only 60% of popular votes in the last election. Nearly 40% of popular votes had opposed the PAP. Therefore, as already stressed by Mr Chiam, should we not first hold a referendum on the issue? 

    We certainly cannot hold an election before the Constitution is amended and before a referendum is held on the issue. If elections are held first, that would be putting the cart before the horse. First things must come first. Would the First Deputy Prime Minister enlighten the House and answer the points both Mr Chiam and I have raised? 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Sir, Mr Chiam has made a number of inaccurate statements. So first let me put him right. 

    Mr Chiam seems to have forgotten that it was he who in fact asked that the matter be put before the people at the 1988 elections. He held a rally at the Ang Mo Kio Sports Complex sometime in August 1988. He specifically said that the elected Presi- 

 dent should be made an issue at the coming polls. That was exactly what the PAP did. In case Mr Chiam has forgotten what he said on 7th August, 1988, he should refer to the Sunday Times, a copy of which is in my hand. 

    Mr Chiam argues that the matter should be put before the people in a referendum. I do not believe in boiling an egg twice. It was an election issue. To quote Dr Lee 

 Siew-Choh, "the most hotly debated issue in the last election." We went out to the people to tell them that we intended to implement this proposal after the election and we were seeking the people's mandate for us to proceed. Both Dr Lee and Mr Chiam and other Opposition parties combined to campaign against the issue and they combined to deny the PAP two-thirds of the seats in Parliament. We therefore joined issues in the last election on the elected President. We, on the one hand, were seeking the people's mandate for the proposal. The Opposition parties, on the other hand, combined to try and deny the PAP a two-thirds majority in the House so that we would not be able to proceed. We won all but one seat. Is there a need for a referendum? I think the answer is quite clear. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2), Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, I think we have only two minutes left. Perhaps you will allow the Minister to give a quick reply. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Sir, the points raised by Mr Chiam and Dr Lee are not new. In fact, they were specifically answered in the previous sitting of Parliament in response to Oral Questions from the two of them, and I suggest they refer back to the answers. 

    As for Switzerland taking only 19 weeks for national service and Germany 15 months, as I have pointed out, our situation is completely different. The Swiss work on a territorial defence system, surrounded by Western Europe. We are in Southeast Asia, at peace and friendly with our neighbours in ASEAN but in an altogether more turbulent part of the world. Vietnam is peaceful, says Mr Chiam. Has he been reading the news in Cambodia? Who are the soldiers who are fighting the non-communist resistance and the Khmer Rouge and, from time to time, scoring victories over them? Are they the PRK? Are they Vietnamese soldiers in PRK uniform? Or are they Vietnamese soldiers secretly in Cambodia? Does he know? Has he heard? Is he in a position to say that peace has broken up? 

  The Chairman: Order. It is guillotine time, Gen. Lee. Mr Chiam, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, if I recall, yesterday you passed your chance. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, you have very little time left, so I suggest you make your point. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, could I ask you to state your point because we still have one more amendment under this Head and the guillotine time is at 1.10 pm? Could you make your point so that the Minister can give his reply? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, we are running out of time on this amendment. I have given you too much time already. I think I will ask the Minister to give his reply. We have to move on to the next amendment. Mr Dhanabalan. 

    Now, Sir, let me deal with some of the specific points which have been brought up this afternoon. The first concerns the importance of the mother tongue, a point brought up by the Members for Bukit Batok, Aljunied GRC, Jalan Besar GRC and the Non-Constituency Member, hoiyung: Order. I will take the suspension now. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, prior to August 1989, only Singapore citizens with one other family member who is a citizen or permanent resident were eligible to purchase flats directly from HDB or in the resale market. In August 1989, HDB relaxed its rules to allow permanent residents to buy HDB flats in the resale market. But a buyer who is a permanent resident must have a family nucleus with at least one other member in his household who is also a permanent resident. To allow a family where only one member is a permanent resident to buy an HDB flat would mean treating the permanent resi- 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, any Singaporean is eligible to buy an HDB flat from the resale market provided he complies with the other requirement, ie, family nucleus. And within the family nucleus, he must have either a citizen or another PR. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: That is correct, Sir. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, that is a very lengthy question. I do not really know which particular part of the question I 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: I think that is a gross misunderstanding of the policy. If a Singapore citizen has a family here and it is quite likely that in due course he will be able to sponsor his other family members to become permanent residents, then he will be able to enjoy the benefits of public housing. The Member is trying to compare with some of the new permanent residents. May I remind the Member that new permanent residents must also comply with our family nucleus requirement. Therefore, it is not a case of a single person coming here as a permanent resident and suddenly he becomes eligible to purchase a resale flat in the open market. He must also have a family and the family must comply with our requirement; ie, within the family, there must be at least one other permanent resident. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: HDB flats are sold to our citizens on a subsidized basis and we have gone through all this before. The fact that they have been sold by the owners on the resale market does not mean that the owners have fully exploited the potential because the supply of HDB flats is there. It is for that reason that the prices of HDB flats even on the resale market are still lower than private housing. The element 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, when the booking system was implemented on 3rd July 1989, there were about 40,000 applicants on the waiting list for 4-room, 5-room and Executive flats. These 40,000 applicants have been dealt with as follows. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, those who dropped out or withdrew from the waiting list because they have not succeeded to either select a New Town or a flat will have to re-apply to purchase flats under the new booking system when these flats are offered for selection. Amongst these applicants, there may be some, as the Member has indicated, who find that their present income level has now exceeded the permitted limit, which is $5,000 per month. I will ask HDB to consider exempting this group of applicants from the income ceiling when they subsequently re-submit applications under the new booking system. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the 'allegation' that Dr Lee referred to was made by a member of the opposition in the Malaysian Parliament. The Malaysian Government has responded to this in its Parliament. It would be improper and counter-productive for me to comment further. All governments must treat such subjects with sensitivity. 

  hoiyung: Then the headline will be, "Mr Chiam denies that he has beaten his wife." 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the vacant land adjacent to the Simei MRT Station is earmarked for commercial, institutional and residential development. HDB, however, has no immediate plans to develop this parcel of land. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I will be very happy to ask HDB to look into the Member's request. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, in January 1989, my Minister informed the Member that redevelopment in Tiong Bahru is likely to start in 1990. Redevelopment will begin with the site above the Tiong Bahru MRT station which will be tendered out for commercial development sometime this year. Public housing redevelopment for the constituency will commence later. 

    All this has not been given any mention in the Select Committee's Report. Though I agree that the recommendations of the Select Committee be accepted in principle, as I have said, by Government as a whole, nevertheless the Workers' Party has reservations as follows. 

  Dr Koh Lam Son (Telok Blangah): Mr Speaker, Sir, I have read the Report and I appreciate the good work put in by the Chairman, Dr Hong Hai, and his Select Committee Members. But more importantly, I believe the public, like Mr Chiam, appreciate that this is a good exercise of the Government's commitment for dialogue, consensus building and participation in decision-making on major issues that confront the nation. 

    Community support and showing compassion for the less able were issues raised in many discussions on the shared values and shows the concern of many. The Member for Potong Pasir and others who have voiced concern fear that Singapore will be a hard headed meritocracy with the able rising to the top and the less able uncared for at the bottom. The inclusion of this value as one we in Singapore uphold addresses this concern. It is a value our forefathers practised: the strong helping the weak, the rich the poor, the talented, the less able. 

    Mr Chiam has got a suspicious mind. He thinks that shared values were designed by the Government to fool the people of Singapore. This is a very unfair accusation and I hope that in his future deliberations he will be able to accept that this is something we in Singapore need. We need to have an identity, we need to have with that identity values which we can share and can call our own. He also fears that we do not have contention and confrontations and he speaks of people fearing to speak up their minds, Mr Chiam has in the last ten years spoken his mind not only within this House, but outside this House and openly. I am glad to say that his neck is still very intact, and his head is on it. I do not see why he fears and I do not understand why he says that Singaporeans fear to speak up their minds for fear of their necks. As for contention, I am sure he does not want us to come to blows in Parliament, as they do in Taiwan and Japan, because the odds here are very much against him in this House. 

    Mr Chiam earlier mentioned about the advanced western countries without having shared values. I think he must have known that western advanced nations started with their religious beliefs. Many of them actually followed the religious beliefs. That is why we hear of things like Protestant ethics. And because Singapore is a secular state and we do not allow ourselves to be guided by any religious beliefs, it becomes important that we have something that binds us together. The western countries are facing deterioration in their life styles because of the waning beliefs they hold with regard to their religion. 

 one another, as has already been referred to by Mr Chiam. 

    Such sentiments and guidelines are most praiseworthy. Here again, the Government has not lived up to this praiseworthy value. Under the excuse that it does not want a welfare state, it has not shouldered its bounden responsibility to look after all the unfortunates in our society. I agree with Mr Chiam. For example, it has cut the public assistance to the barest minimum, to well below subsistence level. And despite repeated calls for help, it has refused to increase allowances to the low-paid pensioners. It has also refused to give adequate personal reliefs to help the low income groups in their payment of income tax. And it has cut down Class C beds for the poor in hospitals, and even raised the fees and charges. In addition to the disabled and destitute families, there are also those whose household incomes are less than $600 a month and are frequently in arrears in payment of rent, PUB and conservancy charges. And Government has spoken of the need for "kinder and gentler" policies, of compassion, and so on. But Government has done little, very little, to help these unfortunate people. 

    The Opposition offers the contention that Government speaks of. Unfortunately, the PAP does not like contention from the Opposition. Thus, it has seized on every opportunity to harass and belittle Opposition parties like the Workers' Party. It tried, for example, to ridicule a member of the Workers' Party when he gave oral evidence before a PAP-dominated Select Committee hearing recently. 

 ise, without fear. Mr Chiam has already mentioned the fact that many people among the university academics dare not speak up. Also, non-political organisations should be allowed, and even encouraged, to publicly comment on issues of national importance. It should also follow that we have an honest government, as has been suggested by MPs and people outside the House. Honest, not merely in the sense that the Government is upright and non-corrupt in financial matters. Honest also morally and politically, in that it regularly and truthfully places all essential and necessary information before the people, so that they may be able to comment intelligently on issues of national importance. 

    This is a must in any multi-racial and multi-religious society. But this should not be used as an excuse to clamp down on religious leaders when they critise unpopular, social and national policies of the Government. Thus, it can be seen that though the White Paper has set out five Shared Values, the Government itself has not really followed policies based on them as guidelines. This has already been emphasised by Mr Chiam. Indeed, it has often followed policies which are often based on values almost diametrically opposite. 

    I remember the first time the issue was mooted in October 1988 by the then First Deputy Prime Minister, many questions were asked, amongst which was whether this was an attempt by the Government to come up with a set of rules for all to abide. There were also fears by the minority and a section of the educated elite that Confucianistic values will be imposed so that Singaporeans will be more obedient. Therefore, it was not surprising to read in the Straits Times of 9th January 1991 that the value "Consensus instead of contention" emerges as the most controversial issue. This, according to some Singaporeans including the hon. Opposition Member, Mr Chiam, can be used to put the Opposition down. It was also interpreted as Government's intolerance of dissent and their perception is based on historical reasons. 

 make them clearer and more acceptable. The thrust has not changed. The ideas in general are the same. We know these ideas command wide support. I say that, not only based on the discussions these last two days, but also because we know from our feedback from the grassroots and from straw polls. The sentiments in the Shared Values, and the individual values themselves, do command general support from the general public, from all racial groups. Even the item on "Consensus instead of contention" commands similar support. In fact, even Dr Lee and Mr Chiam today in their speeches could not object to these Shared Values. They could claim that the Government was unworthy in promoting them, because we did not live up to their promise, but they could not claim that these values were wrong or that Singaporeans should not adopt them. Which is right. We would like to have a set of values which even the Opposition will accept and try to live up to, because that is the way to strengthen the political system in Singapore. 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: Yes, Sir. By moving this amendment, I am asking that "contention" be kept inside. So there can be contention, except that we do not go on to conflict. That is my point to Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you moving an amendment to the amendment? 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir, by looking at the western societies as an example to illustrate his point that there is actually no need for us to evolve our own Shared Values, had failed to comprehend a basic difference that exists between our society and theirs. America takes 200 years to evolve from the Calvinism Protestant Ethic into what they are today. Europe had taken centuries, initially having ethnically based values which were later institutionalised to become their tradition, and that needs time. If we are to follow the western way by allowing time to be the main agent of solution to our own problems, it will take 200, 300, perhaps 400 years, given the different backgrounds that all of us come from. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, do you want to withdraw your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, may I remind you that we have only a very short time left for this Head. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thank the NCMP for his candour and his integrity. I think there is a basis for us to work. I am not here to discuss a long settled case of national service defaulters. As for injustices, the Government's responsibility is to enforce the laws, to be fair to all those who did sacrifice their 2 years and 2(r) years for national service, and to ensure that the incentives are for people to do the right thing by the society instead of to renege and weasle out of what they know to be their duty. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Sir, the Member for Nee Soon Central has asked whether the Government will give town councils which are 

    Lastly, I come to Dr Lee's reading of the HDB annual accounts. He wants to know what kind of loans, what kind of depreciation, how car parks can depreciate. Sir, the HDB has different cost and activity centres and cost is allocated to different centres in accordance with normal accounting practices. HDB borrows money for all its activities and how the cost of these loans is allocated is based upon principles agreed with the auditors. And a part of the loans will be applied to car parking charges. I cannot tell Dr Lee offhand how much interest will be charged. If he wants to file a question, I can have an answer prepared. What kind of depreciation? How can car parks depreciate? The question is not whether car parks depreciate or not. When you have a capital investment, you have to recover the capital investment as well as the cost of the land. Land does not depreciate but 

    On the question of conservation raised by Dr Lee, he reminds me of a very well-known Danish pianist, Victor Borge. You can give him any tune, any composer, and he can make them all sound the same. You want it to sound like a waltz, you can give him anything and he will make it sound like a waltz. So regardless of what subject we are dealing with, Dr Lee really makes the same old points. He talks about a conservation programme as an eviction programme. I think he well knows that all these areas which are designated as conservation areas were rent-controlled areas. When I announced that these areas would be decontrolled, I said that they would not be decontrolled in the sense that the owner could just evict the tenant. The owner will first of all have to produce plans, show that he has the money to complete his redevelopment plans and only then would the Tenants Compensation Board look at the case and fix the compensation for the tenant, ie, if the tenant and owner cannot come to an agreement on their own. It is not just a question of owners evicting tenants to repossess their properties without any reason. The reason must be a redevelopment plan which is approved by the URA. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Dr Lee knows the compensation policy. All owners and tenants were compensated according to the policy. One of the very important considerations in fixing compensation is the fact that these are rent controlled properties. Being rent controlled properties, rents were fixed. Owners, of course, paid the penalty for low rentals and tenants benefitted by paying very low rentals for a long, long time. Compensation was fixed on the basis of the existing situation, which was a low value for the property because it was rent controlled and rentals were low. It is an established principle and everybody there was compensated according to this established principle. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Sir, let me answer Dr Lee's point. The evidence was for all to see as they drove by Stamford Road. Nothing was done for years and I think that is sufficient evidence. 

    Coming to Mr Chiam's point, I am very surprised that he draws a parallel between Singapore and Hong Kong. In fact, he is a bit outdated. The cycle is not five years. It is two years. Because of 1997, anybody who invests anything now wants his money back in two years. Is that what we are? Surely Singapore thinks well ahead of requirement. And one of the principles in acquiring is also to spruce up the whole city and the whole of Singapore. There are areas that we have resettled where we may not use the land for maybe another five or 10 years. We have resettled and rehoused the people because they were living in poor unsanitary conditions. We are doing that all the time and we are not at all apologetic about it. We plan well ahead. We intend to clean up the city and rehouse the people properly. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think I will make one last point. Mr Chiam is being alarmist. We acquire land that is available for redevelopment. Land that is already developed where there are buildings, we do not acquire. If you look at any of the MRT stations, you will find that there are new private developments around the MRT station that we have not acquired. These are developments by the owners. They have put up new buildings, shopping centres, and other kind of developments, and we have left them alone. But where there are sites for redevelopment, sites which are either vacant or sites occupied by old buildings which are due for redevelopment, we acquire them. We have done so all over the city. If Mr Chiam has been walking around and looking at what has been happening, he would know. I am surprised that he is surprised. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: We assume that when businessmen acquire land they have development proposals. Before anybody buys land, as a lawyer, Mr Chiam would know they will make the necessary enquiries from the departments concerned as to whether there is any public scheme 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we are running out of time. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam should know that the words "required for public scheme" covers a lot of things. As a lawyer, he should know that. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Sir, I will address a common theme which has been raised by several Members in moving this cut. This is the theme of seeking higher grants from the Government to help them to run the town councils. 

    I think I have addressed Mr Chiam's point on more grants in my earlier statement. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you making a speech? Can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: The thrust of Mr Heng Chiang Meng's question is diametrically opposite to what Mr Chiam is saying. I am not conversant at this stage with the details of the HDB transactions but I am under the impression that HDB transactions are in fact not governed by the scale fees under the solicitors' scale and that this benefits a large number of Singaporeans who purchase HDB flats. But since he has raised this point, this can also be a matter which I will refer to the committee for consideration. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Mr Chairman, Sir, I think it is most unfortunate for Mr Chiam to patronise that particular hawker centre. What I am talking about are the general private hawker centres in Singapore. We have done our survey and found that many of them are charging only marginally higher than those run by the statutory boards or by the Environment Ministry. 

  hoiyung: If I may be allowed to respond to Mr Chiam's comments first regarding the quota system. 

    Mr Chiam has made mention of the fact that because COEs have not been taken up, therefore, the quota system has been prematurely introduced and he goes on to say that it is unnecessary. I fail to see the connection between these two points. The reason why COEs have not been taken up is very simple. People who have bid for the COEs found that they have not been able to dispose of them or they have, for some reason or other, not wished to buy a car themselves and have simply not taken them up. I think it is a choice that has been made by the bidder of the COE. He is perfectly entitled not to take them up if he so wishes. 

    Mr Chiam has also mentioned the fact that it is more equitable to make use of usage controls to control road congestion. The Ministry agrees with him. In fact, we have mentioned all along that we intend to use a judicious mix of both ownership and usage control measures to regulate the flow of vehicles on our roads. For this reason, we have already publicly announced the proposed implementation of an Electronic Road Pricing system. This is one of the ways whereby we could more equitably price the use of roads so that people who want to use the roads more will pay for it and those who do not wish to will be able to save some money. 

    As for the implementation of the weekend car scheme, I am pleased to inform him that it is ready for implementation. In fact we have tabled a Bill before this House and this Bill will be due for Second Reading sometime in the near future. I look forward to Mr Chiam's inputs and comments during the debate for the weekend cars. 

    "to give effect to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora by controlling the importation, exportation and introduction from the sea of certain animals and plants and parts of such animals and plants and for matters connected therewith", presented by the Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament and to be printed. 

    "to consolidate and amend and to make further provision concerning the law relating to buildings, and for matters connected therewith", presented by Dr Lee Boon Yang; read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament and to be printed. 

    For ease of identification, Members of a GRC and the Non-Constituency Member would, therefore, be referred to by name. 

(Disqualification as NCMP)

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, are you rising to discuss Mr Seow's position? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, that is not a point of order. I have made Mr Seow's position very clear already. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have allowed you to make your clarification. If you have something else to say, you should save it for your speech. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I know you are perfectly in order to seek clarifications, but I can see that --- 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, can you get to the point and ask your question? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir can, of course, carry on his crusade for rights. But they are already enshrined. What is the point of talking about rights which already exist? What we are looking to is the future when we talk about obligations. 

  hoiyung: I thank the Member for Potong Pasir for the correction, "and the hardworking people of Singapore". Thank you. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, as at 31st December 1988, 34,178 out of a total of 328,903 (or 10.4%) owner-occupiers of HDB flats with mortgage accounts were in arrears with their loan instalment payments. Out of these, 67% owed less than three months, 17% owed between three to six months and 16% owed more than six months of instalments. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, as at 31st December 1988, 11,467 out of a total of 66,298 (or 17.3%) of all tenants of HDB flats were in arrears with their rental. The arrears amount to a total of $2,560,369. 

 is the architect or engineer, the builder or the developer in most cases, either the qualified person or the builder. The penalties stipulated in the Act, $50,000, $10,000 and so on, basically apply to actions that they have taken which do not comply with the Act. It does not necessarily mean that such non-compliance will immediately result in a danger to the structural safety of a building. But we must enforce the procedures and make people take these procedures seriously, which is why we have those provisions. But if a structure collapses because of criminal negligence on the part of any of the parties involved, there are of course other recourses, and I think the Member for Potong Pasir knows this. 

 builder and the professionals. But there are, as Dr Lee has pointed out, developers who are also builders. And I would agree entirely that we ought to be specially careful about such developers. In fact, in the case of residential buildings, developers have to get permission to sell their buildings to the public. They have to obtain a special licence to do so. My own approach would be that where the developer is also a builder we would not allow him to sell until the whole building is completed, so that the buyer can see what he is buying. This will, of course, cut down the extent to which the developer-builder, because he plays both roles, compromises standards as well as quality. 

    Having said what I said about penalties, I am certainly prepared to look further into this. As Dr Lee has suggested, perhaps we should increase the penalty to make it proportionate to the size of the job. Well, that is one way of doing it. This can be considered in future. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time." 

    However, ever since the First Reading of this Minor Offences Bill in Parliament on 19th January 1989, touting has dropped substantially. I have checked with members of the Singapore Retail Merchant Association and was told that touting activities in places like Lucky Plaza, Far East Plaza and C.K. Tang have dropped by more than 50%. Perhaps if the NCMP were to take a walk along Orchard Road today and dress himself as a tourist, he will be less accosted by touts and will agree that the added fine of $5,000 is certainly a bigger deterrent to touts than the original fine of $200. It shows that the tough action by the Government as specified in clauses 17 and 18 of this Bill is effective and will be effective in curtailing illegal activities in Singapore. 

    Sir, I now turn to the Non-Constituency Member, hoiyung: Sir, may I be allowed to clarify my question. I am not talking about reduction of the value of money. You have quoted us certain figures and I want to know what is the percentage of the actual applications. It may be only 2% or even 0.1%. So where is the nuisance? There is hardly any nuisance at all. You 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have given the House the number of illegal processions. There had been a lot of other processions or assemblies including rallies, some of which were organized by the Member for Potong Pasir's political party. All these would have been approved. What is the percentage, I do not have the figures on the number of approval in the last three years. But let me say, Sir, that it is not important what this percentage is today. What is important is that any illegal assembly or procession results in unnecessary congestion, annoyance and disruption to the life of the community. Is the Member for Potong Pasir suggesting that we do nothing about the penalties, We do nothing about these rules and wait until a situation where our roads are completely choked and the normal community life cannot proceed as a result of all these illegal assemblies and processions before we do anything? I do not subscribe to that idea. I think we have to act before the situation deteriorates. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, I would like to take up this point made by both Dr Lee and Mr Chiam. Why do you want to regulate assemblies and processions? Mr Chiam says that there is no harm done. A spontaneous procession was organized to welcome him. A kompang group arrived from some distant place by a lorry spontaneously to welcome him and lead him in a procession of 40-50 metres. If it is a procession, it is a procession. Whether it is spontaneous or planned in advance is irrelevant. All the law requires is that if you want to have a procession, put in an application. The police will consider. If indeed your procession is going to be 50 metres into a stadium entrance and is not going to result in any inconvenience or annoyance to the public, the police can consider. All it requires is that you apply. Is that so onerous? 

    Opposition political parties have held many processions, rallies and forums with the approval of the police. And at some of these forums and rallies, speakers have spoken up in strong criticism against the Government, sometimes using rather vitriolic language. This has not stopped the police from approving such applications. The Member says that this is a measure to suppress Opposition political activities. But let me remind Members of this House that these rules on assemblies and processions are applied equally to both Government MPs and also Opposition MPs. There have been cases in the past where organizations supported by the PAP MPs have applied for permits to hold processions and these applications have been rejected. If the Member for Potong Pasir doubts my word, he has only to consult Mr Chandra Das, the Member for Cheng San GRC. Mr Das can tell him his experience of having had some of his applications rejected. If Mr Chiam still has any doubts, he may want to consult Dr Richard Hu, the Minister for Finance. He also has had experience when some applications of his grassroots organizations were rejected. So there is nothing in the Bill which says that the police will only grant permits to Government MPs. They are all treated fairly. 

    Sir, in summary, I would say that this Bill, despite what Dr Lee has said, is directed at this problem of touting. The other changes are updating changes and there are no new powers given to the Minister or to the Government. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if Dr Lee has any doubt as to the constitutionality of this Bill, he can always test it. If he wants a judge to judge it, he can always bring it to a test and he knows how to bring it to a test. 

    As I said before, the existing Act is very clear. All the rules governing assemblies and processions are made by the Commissioner of Police with the approval of the Minister. And this, I hope Dr Lee will read this in the proper context, must mean that everything else has to meet with the approval of the Minister. Therefore, nothing is new in this Bill except for those areas where I have touched on creation of new offences, replacement of an entire section with a new section to create this offence of touting. 

    The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill. [Dr Lee Boon Yang]. 

  hoiyung: Sir, "public place" as defined in this Bill is quite clearly stated. If Dr Lee has any doubts, he should read the definition. If his party branch or his party headquarters is open to free access to the members of the public at any time, then of course it is a public place. But if members of the public do not have free access to his party branch or his party HQ, then I would say it does not fall under the ambit of this definition. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang)(for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the neighbourhood in Ubi Avenue 1 has 19 blocks of flats with a total of 2,076 dwelling units. To date, residents of 1,334 units in this neighbourhood have complained of the problem of falling wall tiles and "popping out" of floor tiles. This is made up of 881 units with a problem of falling wall tiles, 397 units with loosened floor tiles and 56 units with both defective wall and floor tiles. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, HDB presently has a system of carrying out quality control checks on all the new flats before they are handed over by the contractors. In the case of wall tiling and floor tiling, the check is carried out by knocking on the tiles to listen for any hollow sound and whenever tiles with a hollow sound are detected they will be rejected and replaced. With this quality checks in place, it is not necessary for HDB to conduct a test on all occupied flats because owners of these occupied flats can always report to HDB if they encounter any building defect, including defective wall tiles or floor tiles. Defects arising from such poor workmanship will be rectified by HDB as and when reports are made. HDB will undertake to rectify such defects even beyond the normal one year defects liability period. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Dr Lee knows and we know that all this is a smokescreen to hide and cover up the fact that Mr Francis Seow pulled off a big con job on the Prosecution and on the courts. He is repeating what Mr Francis Seow said in his press statement, "Well, so much money has been spent, on recovering his tax charges and a fine of $6,000." As I have stated in my answer, this has got nothing to do with the tax charges. He failed to turn up for trial on the 5th. On the 6th the Attorney-General asked for observations to be kept and the surveillance started on the 8th. It has got nothing to do with the tax charges. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chairman, Sir, first of all, I think Dr Lee is misleading the House by saying that nothing has been done with all the properties that have been acquired. If anybody travels down from Outram Road right up to Coleman Bridge, 

    I think it is the stretch between Coleman Street and Stamford Road that is of particular interest to Dr Lee because Eu Court building is at the junction of Stamford Road and Hill Street, and Dr Lee has a clinic there. For this part, PWD is looking at two options. One option is to widen the stretch from Coleman Street to Stamford Road which will require the demolition of Eu Court. The other alternative is to opt for a passage through Armenian Street towards Queen Street, so that we have one direction going east towards Victoria Street and another going west towards New Bridge Road. As soon as a decision is made, work will start. 

    Whether sitting tenants who are past owners will have their properties reverted to them is a question that Dr Lee raised. The answer is no. The whole of Eu Court has been acquired. Those who are tenants there, whether they are past owners or not, are at present paying TOL rentals and TOL terms are quite clear. They are month-to-month and I think the rentals are very low. For example, I think in the case of the two premises that Dr Lee's clinic occupies, the rent is in the region of $400-odd per month. When we need to renovate these premises, the present tenants will have to move out. Whether the tenants will qualify for compensation will depend upon the particulars of the case. They will be treated the same as other resettlement tenants. And if they do qualify, they will get the normal resettlement benefits. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have run out of time. Dr Lee, would you withdraw your amendment? 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Sir, during the first two days of March there were indeed some disruption to the people who had to go to the various area offices or branch offices to make their payment to HDB. There were a few reasons for it. First, there was a spillover of people who had to pay their bills from the end of February to early March. Secondly, in the process of reorganizing the area offices, HDB had to issue to the residents two new pass books, one to pay their rental or loan instalment, and the other to pay for the service and conservancy charges. This is to pave the way for the Town Councils taking over the management of the estate. Thirdly, there were many motorists who were renewing their season parking ticket at the end of February. Fourth, since it was a new arrangement people were not familiar with the various arrangements at the new offices that they have to go to and the payment procedures. But HDB is confident that the confusion or the long queues which took place in early March will not repeat itself in April. By April most people will be more familiar with the payment procedures and they will know where to go. However, as a precaution HDB will deploy more staff and open up additional counters to make sure that the congestion at their various area offices and branch offices will not repeat itself. HDB tries, wherever possible, to provide branch offices or area offices in a central location to the convenience of as many residents as possible. But in some instances in some large housing estates this is simply not possible. But HDB will be monitoring the situation carefully following this reorganization and watching whether there is any necessity to open up more branch offices to do the collection. I must say at the present moment that HDB does not have any plans to open up more branch offices or collection centres. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. 11, Dr Lee. Dr Lee, I intend to take the suspension at 2.45. 

    'Such Non-Constituency Members will have all the rights, privileges, and duties of elected MPs with the exception that they shall not vote in Parliament on any motion relating to a Bill to amend the Constitution, a Supply or Supplementary Supply Bill, a Money Bill, or a vote of no confidence in the Government.' 

    Sir, under the circumstances I thought that, as an MP, I would be entitled to a void deck office just like any other MP. Unless the Minister turns round and tells me that an NCMP is a second class MP. Would he say that? 

 of the Prime Minister's undertaking here in Parliament obviously applies to what happens in Parliament. The NCMP has got all the rights, duties and privileges, obligations, except to vote on money bills and that applies to what happens in Parliament. Why does the NCMP want an office to be provided at Government's expense? Which constituency is he looking after? 

  hoiyung: Sir, if we are afraid of competition we would not have had the concept of NCMP. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, I notice you have another amendment on the same topic. Would you like to ask your questions now? 

    Sir, the NCMP hoiyung: I beg leave to withdraw my amendment. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the northern portion of the piece of vacant land in front of Block 322A at Jurong East Street 31 is earmarked for the development of one primary and one secondary school. The southern portion nearer to Boon Lay Road has been earmarked for middle-income housing. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, your time is up. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as the Member for Moulmein has pointed out, form teachers play a critical role in schools. Each form teacher sets the tone for his or her class and is responsible for bringing the students closer together and for making the classroom like a home. Most classes, as he said, are taught by teachers from the English stream. These are in the primary schools. Some are taught by second language teachers. But these teachers do not only just teach the language and mark the register and just leave the class, but also teach moral education. Some teach art and craft and music. 

  Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: With your indulgence, Sir, three very short answers to Mr Goh Choon Kang, Mr Chiam and hoiyungasked for some information regarding the NUS Department of Chinese Studies. On the number of graduates who read the subject as a major subject, the figures for the last five years were: 85 for 1985, 76 for 1986, 110 for 1987, 98 for 1988 and 117 for 1989. 

  hoiyung: It is 3.35 pm. Dr Lee, I am afraid you have to withdraw the amendment. It is guillotine time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was talking about car ownership yesterday when Parliament adjourned. Before I continue, permit me to make a correction on the figure of the annual collection of fund generated by the foreign maid levies which I gave yesterday. Otherwise, I might acquire a reputation as that of the Member for Potong Pasir, ie, someone having trouble with his figures. I said that if a fund were to be set up funded by the foreign maid levies, the amount would come up to about $25 million a year. Actually, there being 40,000 maids in Singapore and at the new rate of $250 a month, that amount would actually --- 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, will you allow the clarification? 

  Mr Speaker: Dr Tay, Mr Chiam does not intend to give way. 

    From the views expressed by the Member for Potong Pasir on western values, in fact, I do not disagree that the western values have brought us all the way to what we have today. One thing we have to be cautious about this is that we should not adopt the western values so blindly. So far, the western values have brought us to what we have today and we are also encountering situations and social problems that are experienced in the western world. Things obviously like the increase of the divorce rate, the increase of the drug abuse, and more single-parent families. Therefore, I feel that western values are no doubt important and we have to selectively choose those which are relevant to our society and should not follow them blindly. 

  The Minister for Trade and Industry (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to address my remarks to the subject of the National Ideology, and especially to the alternative point of view which has been expressed by the Member for Potong Pasir, a few minutes ago. Mr Chiam said that he supports the Speech by the President so I presume he will vote in favour at the end of this debate. But I believe, if we take what he says seriously, what he presented is really a fundamentally different view of what 

    It is a fashionable, Utopian argument. Is it the reality? Mr Chiam said he is a third generation Singaporean, and proud to be one. So am I. What do we have in common, as two third-generation Singaporeans, which can hold us together, despite belonging to different political parties, as belonging to one people with more in common than, say, a friend who lives in Hong Kong or an acquaintance, an honourable gentleman who may be from the United States? If life is just a matter of being a virtuous man, the answer must be there is nothing special. And if there is nothing special, what reason is there to believe that Singapore is going to be here, never mind 100 years from now, but even 30 years from now, our children's generation? 

 wanted to arrest in 1976 for fanning Chinese chauvinist sentiments - Ho Juan Thai. Mr Chiam had forgotten his name just now. 

    Sir, the hon. Member for Potong Pasir has the habit of using terms loosely. In this respect, today he strongly, unequivocally, advocated for a radically different path towards building social cohesiveness in Singapore, ie, promoting westernization. 

    Secondly, he proposed that Singapore should be a melting pot. I think the Hon. Minister has already explained what it implies - assimilation. I would like to add one more point. The fact that Singapore is very cautious to avoid ourselves from being perceived as an extension of Chinese culture, Chinese state, as a Third China, is simply because we want to live in harmony with our neighbours. At the first indication that we show our inclination to be a Third China, we must be prepared to face repercussions from our neighbouring countries which are demographically bigger than us. Is the Member for Potong Pasir advocating for that direction? Is he or is he not? 

    Sir, the National Ideology serves as our principles and guidelines in achieving our objectives. Some quarters, including the Member for Potong Pasir, are sceptical of the rationale of having a National Ideology. They claim that by introducing elements taken from our respective ethnically-centred or ethnically-based values and traditions for our national philosophy, we may be creating a contradiction. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, our political and social landscape has changed a lot. But the Member for Potong Pasir has failed to recognize the change of the backdrop. The 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, as at 31st December 1988, there is a stock of 11,102 unsold 3-room flats of which 3,185 will be sold soon because they are located in popular zones such as Ang Mo Kio, Bedok, Jurong and Bukit Batok. There is already a waiting list of 3,535 applicants for 3-room flats in these zones as at 31st December 1988. The remaining 7,917 3-room flats are located in Yishun and Woodlands in which zones the demand has shifted to larger room types. For this reason, about 2,000 of these flats will be converted to bigger flats to meet the new demand. This will leave a net stock of about 5,917 vacant 3-room flats which will be kept for sale to new applicants, especially from those upgrading from rental flats. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, phase 1 of the programme to repair the ceiling of flats affected by spalling concrete commenced in June 1988 and will last till March 1989. This covers about 2,500 cases of spalling concrete reported to the Board before 31st December 1987. To-date, 1,451 cases have been attended to and repair of the other cases are in progress. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the traffic congestion along East Coast Parkway during the evening peak hours and on Saturday afternoons is caused by the signalized traffic junction at ECP and Fort Road. Work is in progress to replace it with a flyover by the first quarter of 1990. The traffic lights at Fort Road junction are already adjusted to give maximum green time to the traffic along the East Coast Parkway. On the average, a motorist will take about 5 minutes to clear the traffic lights during the peak hours. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, HDB is selling Anthony Garden en bloc with vacant possession on a 99-year lease by open public tender. The successful 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, the decision to sell the Anthony Garden flats en bloc does not amount to speculation on the part of HDB. As I have said before, and quoted by Dr Wong, HDB builds flats to meet the needs of the people. At the present moment, there is no waiting list for HUDC flats. HDB has, in fact, 580 vacant HUDC-type flats available for immediate allocation for those who wish to buy flats. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, there are presently four lock-up shops serving the residents of Simei housing estate. More facilities are being constructed and will be completed by April 1989. These include 11 lock-up shops, 6 market produce lock-up shops, 1 eating house and a mini-market. These facilities when completed will be sufficient to meet the basic marketing and shopping needs of the residents. As Simei is a small housing estate, the full facilities normally provided in the new towns such as town centre, town parks, sports complex, will not be built. The full range of such facilities are already provided in the nearby Tampines New Town, whose town centre has been planned to cater to the requirements of both Tampines New Town and Simei Estate. Moreover, Simei has an MRT station which is within walking distance from all its dwelling units. Residents of Simei can easily take the MRT to other town centres for shopping and other needs. 

    Dr Lee and I have exchanged words on this subject before but he does not seem willing to cease making allegations against the courts. I trust that he will do the honourable thing and withdraw his allegations against the courts. It is one thing to accuse the Government of bad faith. The Ministers are here to defend themselves. It is another to accuse the courts. The judges are not here to defend themselves and in any event they cannot make any public statements to clear their name. And further, the very making of the statement itself casts an imputation and the damage is done. As Parliamentarians, we have a responsibility. We should not make statements for the sake of political motives. 

    Sir, the legal profession is unique in Singapore. Lawyers are allowed to hold clients' money. All the other professions named by the Minister - the accountants, architects, dentists, doctors, land surveyors, pharmacists, professional engineers - they have no such professional privilege. And in the sale of land, Sir, the lawyers also hold money as stakeholders. I know some legal firms hold vast sums of money. Sir, therefore, if there is any provision which will protect the clients and uphold the honesty and integrity of the profession, I will support the legislation. But in this particular case Dr Lee has pointed out, the issue is really one of justice - whether or not by the amendments, it will serve greater justice to the lawyers. I do not think so. 

  hoiyung: Point of clarification, Sir. I would like to ask Mr Chiam whether our country is a sovereign state, in the first place. Secondly, is he inferring that our judges are inferior to other judges within the Commonwealth, for example? And whether the lawyers produced by our NUS are inferior to lawyers in England? If so, then there is no need for us to have the NUS Law Faculty and all of us should do law degrees in Britain. 

  Mr Speaker: Do you wish to respond, Mr Chiam? 

    According to the Law Society's Annual Report for the year ending 31st August 1988, the Law Society had to deal with 103 complaints. Of these, 91 were completed and 20 were referred to the Disciplinary Committee; 11 were dealt with by the imposition of a penalty and 60 were dismissed. The Member for Potong Pasir has categorized the issue before this House as one of justice. That is a fair way of saying 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can I know which Bill you are referring to? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, I can see that you are not confining yourself to the Bill. 

    I thought I might just take this opportunity to comment on one point and that is, the definition of conservation. A coat of paint is not conservation. The block of buildings in Hill Street has not been designated as conservation area. That block and the building next to it, Stamford House, will be temporarily rented out until such time as the demand for commercial space in Singapore requires that whole area be redeveloped. So what is happening at Hill Street is just the sprucing up the place to use it on a temporary basis. It is not conservation. Conservation guidelines are quite detailed and anybody who has a property in a conservation area, if they go to URA and obtain the guidelines, will find that it is not just a coat of paint. There are not only restrictions on what can be done but also things that ought to be done, and this goes far beyond just giving a coat of paint. So I want to clarify to Dr Lee that the building where his clinic is situated is not intended at the present moment to be a conservation area. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, in order to achieve a better mix of private and public housing in Telok Blangah Estate, the vacant land next to Block 45, Telok Blangah Drive, is earmarked to be tendered out as a sale site in 1990. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Sir, in response to the request from the Member for Changi, the Public Works Department has investigated and confirmed that additional lights along the staircases and ramps of the two bridges will be useful. They will be installed by mid-May 1989. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, I will ask the Public Works Department to look into it and, if necessary, it will be installed. 

  BG Lee Hsien-Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, both Members have points which are valid. Mr Chiam is right. In the private sector, salaries vary from good years to bad years. I am surprised that he is surprised by these numbers, because he has seen them before in 1985 (earlier numbers for 1983). In fact, the earlier numbers in some cases were higher than these, because some of these earnings had been affected by the recession and had not fully recovered. So the amounts vary from year to year, but the average is very high. And overall, this is not untypical. If there were years when it was zero or even minus, and people have to claim back income tax, well, all right, then maybe, "Nobody might want such a career." But despite the variations, the trend, remains so consistent that people know there is not that much risk going into it. 

    Having complained that civil servants receive a fixed amount, Mr Chiam, then complains that there are so many variables in a civil servant's pay. I would have thought if a fixed amount is no good, variables are good. But he prefers neither fixed amount nor variables. So I do not know what he prefers. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I am glad Mr Chiam has such confidence in the system. It is so, but no private company pays people automatically, regardless of performance. So why is the Government special? Yes, performance bonuses have failed before. And in certain schools, teachers did not want to assess and did not want to be ranked. Everybody is a good teacher. That is why we are starting small with Superscale officers and the Administrative Service, and only taking 

    Dr Lee asked how many resigned and emigrated. I do not have the numbers. I think many have remained. We have asked those still in Singapore why they left the Civil Service. I have given you the reasons slow promotions, better prospects outside, some felt that their CEP was unfairly assessed, which really meant that they were promoted too slowly. I have not heard of anybody who left because he belongs to the wrong political party. And in any case, the Government does not promote. The Public Service Commission promotes. And I do not know which political party the PSC belongs to, unless Dr Lee is making the same suggestion apropos the PSC, as his colleague and he himself was making apropos the Supreme Court. But I take it that he isn't. 

    On study leave, Dr Lee has a point. It is a great desire of officers to go on study leave. They have got Bachelor degrees, they want Masters degrees. It is like collecting stamps. If you have one, you 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to touch on two aspects of the teaching of core values. I hope what Mr Chiam fears most would not materialize. Because as far as my understanding goes, Confucianism teaches many good values. 

  Dr Aline Wong: Since Mr Chiam has talked about his views on Confucianism and one of the points I was going to make on the Religious Knowledge programme was also on Confucianism, I think I should deal with this matter first. 

    Perhaps for the Member for Potong Pasir, if he has some difficulty in understanding Chinese, he should read these two English texts to begin with and see how Confucianism, in fact, can be adapted to modern-day conditions. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, on 17th March 1988, I informed the Member for Yuhua that the Sports Complex at Jurong East is 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, last year my Minister informed this House that the Government took a serious view of the problem of touts and had adopted a multi-pronged approach to tackle it. 

    And yet, Mr Speaker, Sir, all does not appear to be well. The results of the last General Election tell us something. We have all done our analysis of the voting patterns and we have all come to our own conclusions. But one message is coming through loud and clear, that Singaporeans want to see some Opposition in Parliament, even as they want to have a good government. I therefore strongly support the Government's intention to not only review the NCMP scheme but also to increase the number of NCMPs. I believe that not only is this sensitive to the wishes of the people, but that it will also educate the people on what makes for good government. 

    Sir, in relation to Dr Lee's point about National Ideology, he started by saying, of course, the National Ideology is now required and that is because of the ill-effects of our educational policies. Half-way through his submission, he then said, 

    Sir, Dr Lee just now stated that thousands of Singaporeans are out of job. I really do not know where he got the facts from. But if it is true, Sir, I would ask him to give me the information and I would direct him to the Singapore Manufacturers Association, the Defu Manufacturers Association. In fact, one of my colleagues just now came to me and said that he could not find enough workers and that is why he has shifted his factory to China. So if he has the numbers that he has, I would like to help him in that area. 

    In America, they have their fundamental liberties enshrined in the constitution and that constitution is so sacrosanct that nobody can change it. But it is not the constitution that brought prosperity to the people. It is the drive, the energy of the people, motivated by the profit objective to make sure that they have a good living, to make sure that they prosper, that caused America to thrive. It is not the melting pot concept that brought about prosperity in America, as some would naively believe. In fact, if Mr Chiam, who believes that we should follow the system of a melting pot, has been to America, he would know that while the people may live together but they still live in separate enclaves. Go to New York, walk through Harlem and he will see for himself that there are enclaves. Where is the melting pot? But American politicians are not willing to tackle the difficulties of the minority races. They prefer to just leave matters as they are. 

    Sir, when one gives a speech, others are entitled to their opinions and interpretation of one's speech. My speech given yesterday, and I am very flattered, has been given various connotations. The Straits Times thought I was chiding. The Minister thought I was saying that his Ministry has been uncooperative all along. Mr Davinder Singh feels that I have been going for the jugular. And now the NCMP feels that I am crossing over. However, what I said is recorded on videotape and it is in the Hansard. May I remind the NCMP that I ended my speech by saying that I still believe in our present system and I am still an optimist. Can I quote from my own speech: 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, may I remind you that you have no right of reply on the amendment you have moved. 

    Dr Lee, in his presentation, attacked the slogan "Three or more if you can afford it" and labelled it as discriminatory. As a wife and mother, I find the statement perfectly acceptable. Sir, it is irresponsible to bring children into the world if we cannot look after them. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have a point of clarification. The Member for Potong Pasir has attributed the words "I thoroughly reject" to me. May I clarify that I did not say that? I said "I call upon this House to thoroughly reject". There is a reason why I say that and I am glad he brought it up because up to that point I was not really too sure whether he will reject the particular amendment or he will support the amendment. So when I used the words I was in fact directing them at him and hoped that he would join us in rejecting the amendment. 

  Mr Goh Choon Kang (Braddell Heights): Sir, just a point of clarification. I think it may be useful for the Member for Potong Pasir to make clear his stand whether he 

  The Minister for Trade and Industry (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to note that the Member for Potong Pasir has made a very significant speech in this House. His position is quite different from the one outlined by the Non-Constituency Member. When I listened to Dr Lee earlier this afternoon I had the sense of deja vu, very old matters, echoes coming back from 20 years ago. It is like a 78 rpm record, beautifully preserved sound, from a different era. 

  hoiyung: Sir, first, his question on whether the immigration policy is designed to prevent foreign workers from pursuing their legitimate rights, if necessary, in our courts. I do not know the details of the particular case. Therefore, I can only answer in general terms. First of all, it is not true that the immigration policy is deliberately designed, to prevent any person in Singapore from pursuing his legal rights. If a foreign worker, whether on employment pass or on work permit, feels that his employer has done him wrong, and in this case apparently he wanted to sue, he can give instructions to his counsel to sue and the immigration authorities will have no reason to penalise or punish him for that. But if his work permit or employment pass has been cancelled, then it is cancelled and he cannot stay in Singapore on the basis of the work permit. But that does not mean that he cannot pursue his legal rights. One does not have to be in Singapore physically all the time to pursue his legal rights. A lawyer can take up the case. Unless the worker is barred from coming back to Singapore - maybe Dr Lee can tell me whether he was banned from entry - then he can come back to Singapore on a social visit pass any number of times to have further discussions with his lawyer or to attend court hearings, mention dates and so on. 

  hoiyung: I can see why Mr Chiam does not see the logic of it. But from the security aspect, we need to observe and be satisfied before all the conditions are removed. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Chairman, I am not sure whether the kind of situation Mr Chiam is referring to are cases which are governed by the work permit marriage restriction policy. I take it that he is not 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, I stand by my statement that the Government does not prevent any person from marrying in Singapore, with the only exception of work permit holders. If Mr Chiam knows of any case involving non-work permit holders who have been told that they cannot marry, other than for reasons specified in the Women's Charter because of age or whatever, but as a matter of Government policy that permission is needed from the Government to marry, he can raise it with me, and I will cause a full investigation to be made. 

  hoiyung: I think we are at cross purposes here. If Mr Chiam can let me have the cases, I will investigate. My understanding is that when a couple goes to the Registry of Marriages and one of them is a work permit holder, he is advised to go to the Work Permit Office. If neither party to a proposed marriage is a work permit holder, no department's permission is needed. And I can give him an assurance on this point. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

    One of the complaints of businessmen is that there is a proliferation of rules and regulations. The tendency, it seems, if you wish to protect your turf or your back-door, make another rule. Will this be one area which the Unit will be focusing upon? What happened to the Business Enterprise Committee headed by Dr Lee Boon Yang? Is it still in existence or will it be taken over by this new Unit? What about the relationship with the Management Services Department? I suggest, Sir, that this Unit should be a 

    I can assure Dr Lee that a review of the Singapore Allowance will be considered should there be unusual changes in the inflation environment in Singapore in the future. It would have been easy to say yes, to avoid being called "hard-hearted", but we have to operate by certain rules. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Dr Lee's point is that, notwithstanding, the CPI changes, the cost of living has gone up substantially. In the first place, the CPI data do not support this conclusion. I think the difference in perception arises because compared to 10 years ago, the consumer today has a very much larger choice of goods to purchase. If you take eating out, for example, 10 years ago, one could eat very cheaply and well at hawker centres or eat more comfortably at restaurants at a higher price. Today, there is a very wide choice, covering a wide spectrum of prices, ranging from the still cheap hawker food in HDB estates to more pricey places like Newton Circus, food courts, fast food restaurants, gourmet restaurants and so forth. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, do you like to withdraw your amendment? 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the income ceiling for purchase of HDB flats was reviewed recently in 1989. Since 11th August 1989, the income ceiling for flats purchased directly from HDB has been raised from $4,000 to $5,000 per month for a nuclear 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, under the existing policy, tenancy of a rental flat can be transferred to the original permitted occupiers or "sitting tenants" under the following three situations: 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am afraid I have not got the point of the question. If they have given an undertaking that they do not wish to take up the flat, then that is the end of the matter. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, I believe the Member is referring to those whom HDB has allowed to live in rental flats as a casual boarder. In this case, we cannot really treat a casual boarder on a better level than we treat those permitted occupiers. If the casual boarder needs rental housing, I think he should apply on his own and qualify accordingly. 

    The pilgrims referred to by Mr Chiam were those who went against MUIS' advice and paid money to a travel agent who was not selected by MUIS as a GSA. This travel agent was unable to fulfil his obligations to the pilgrims. MUIS has lodged a report against the company with the Commercial Crimes Division and the case is under investigation. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, you will rise in your place when asking your Question. 

    Sir, Mr Ibrahim Othman also suggested that perhaps MUIS should take over the control of pilgrimage affairs arising from the incident where 242 pilgrims were stranded this year. In my reply to Mr Chiam a short while ago, the pilgrims who were stranded this year were those who went against MUIS' advice and paid money to a travel agent who was not selected by MUIS as one of its General Sales Agents (GSAs). Our existing legislations are adequate to take care of those who break the law. At this point of time, there is no necessity for MUIS to take over control of pilgrimage affairs. What we will do is to urge would-be pilgrims to take heed of the advice given by MUIS and register only with those pilgrim brokers and GSAs who are approved by MUIS. 

    Sir, there is no reason for the Prime Minister to table a motion to ask the President to pardon Mr Jeyaretnam. The Member should read carefully what the Prime Minister said on 12th September 1986 in the Committee of Privileges. The Prime Minister promised Mr Jeyaretnam to get Parliament to ask the President for a pardon or set aside the convictions and order a new trial if Mr Jeyaretnam proved his innocence, namely, by having the two witnesses, Ivy Chew and Ping, as witnesses to say that although the cheques were made out to the Workers' Party, they had, at the time they handed the cheques, said that he was to do with it as he wished. The fact is Mr Jeyaretnam never produced them as witnesses. 

    Sir, it is clear from the Official Receiver's examination of the accounts of the Workers' Party that the Party had collected considerable sums in donations, totalling $58,363 between 1972 and 1980, more than $58,000. They had also expended $31,494 in election expenses in 1976, $1,400 in a by-election in 1977, and it had spent $14,463 in election expenses in 1980. So considerable sums of money received in donations, sums of money spent in elections and by-elections. Yet throughout this period the Party's bank accounts showed only $29 in 1977, $355 in 1978, and for the years 1979, 1980 and 1981, for each of these three years, $6.97 and a balance of $18.47 in January 1982. It was abundantly clear that this was a deliberate scheme to siphon off donations to the Party, and leave only paltry sums in the bank to prevent the Official Receiver from collecting them. 

    The Privy Council stated that he was not guilty on the technical point, that each of the three cheques was a gift and not for value, and that therefore the donor could have changed his or her mind. It seems absurd that where the Official Receiver is appointed, whether he is defrauded of property belonging to the Workers' Party depends on whether a cheque was a gift or for value, because once Mr Jeyaretnam had received a cheque for the Workers' Party by law, he immediately was deemed to have held it for the Official Receiver, and had no power to give it back to the giver or to anybody else. This point comes out clearly in the Attorney-General's advice and let me quote: 

    'As a consequence of not hearing the Singapore Public Prosecutor, a number of issues crucial to the convictions were not fully argued. For example, when dealing with the issue concerning title to the proceeds of the cheques, the Privy Council seemed to have dismissed the fact that the Workers' Party was already in receivership, as of little or no importance, when Willie Lim altered his cheque at the request of Wong Hong Toy. 

    Judge Khoo had found as a fact that when that cheque was countermanded, the Workers' Party was already in receivership, and that the terms of the Order was to the effect that all assets belonging to the Party were to be handed over to the Official Receiver. Consequently, neither Jeyaretnam nor Wong Hong Toy had any right to request Willie Lim to alter the cheque - property in it having already passed to the Official Receiver.' 

    Sir, the Privy Council, therefore, missed the point that Mr Jeyaretnam and Mr Wong received the cheques as officers of the Workers' Party and that where the Workers' Party was under receivership, only the Receiver can give approval for the return of any cheque. The Receiver never knew of these goings-on and was kept completely out of the picture by the two officers of the Workers' Party who freely dealt with the asset of the Party, in breach of the trust that the law imposed on them. These then, Sir, are very important points of law which the Public Prosecutor would have raised had the Privy Council heard him. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can I ask you to put your question? 

    Do you have any more questions, Dr Lee? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, I think that question has been answered. Do you have any other supplementary questions? 

  hoiyung: Could you ask your question, Dr Lee? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, there is a Bill before the House. I suggest you save your comments for the Second Reading. Do you have any other supplementary questions not related to the Bill? 

    Sir, it strikes me that the key point in the President's Address and the very basis of the Government's plans for the next few years lies in the first sentence of the Address which says, "The Government's goal is to create a better life for all Singaporeans." This simple sentence states the mission and the raison d'etre of the Government. This is the primary duty of any Government to improve the well-being of the people. The Government is being elected and judged by the people on how much it has improved their lives. I was very surprised yesterday when the Non-Constituency Member, hoiyung: 

    Having said all this, I must put in my pitch for the second language in support of the Chairman of the GPC for Education. Some Members still remember that I made a similar speech in February 1985, for which I was rewarded by a very prolonged and acrimonious response in the Chinese press, to the extent that I had to make my next speech in Mandarin. My thinking is very simple. I feel that we need to open the windows of our minds. What I have said of the Arts actually opens more windows to our minds, and that is all that I am asking for. Languages and Arts are actually quite similar. Arts are actually languages. And if you are talking about a National Ideology where we must respect each other's cultures and religions, where we want to promote our heritages, what better place to promote than using the Arts as a vehicle. The Arts is a place where people can cross cultural, international, barriers. The Arts is a place that borrows quite freely from each other. So even Mr Chiam's idea of a melting pot would be well served with promotion of the Arts at its basic level, from early childhood, not just performances here and there. 

    When I look at the Member for Potong Pasir here - he has just come in - I remember what he said yesterday. I do not 

    Yesterday, the Member for Potong Pasir said that westernization is good and it should be adopted wholesale. I would like to point out that this concept is wrong. In addition, he also said that the independence of Singapore had been brought about by a group of leadership in the PAP who were western educated. This is only partially right. Mass support is necessary in any struggle for independence. It is true tha we have leaders who were educated in the West; but, to say independence of a country depended entirely on them would be too simplistic. In their struggle for independence from colonial rule, many countries had gone through a period of bloody revolution, turmoil and struggle before independence could be achieved. The PAP leadership was able to 

    At that time, there was a group of Western trained scholars and others who had acquired Western thoughts and skills. They understood methods of government administration and political systems. They decided to come forward to lead the broad masses towards independence for Singapore. They complemented each other, and helped Singapore achieved independence. Yesterday, the Member for Potong Pasir had handed a bouquet to the leadership of the PAP. I would like to thank him. But I dare say that the the PAP leadership does not consider themselves as being the only ones who deserved this accolade. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir referred to Prof. Tu Wei Ming's comment about Confucianism being Chinese because of its Chineseness. I do not deny that. There are many Chinese who do not know the Chinese Language. But this is not to say that those Chinese who do not understand Chinese must be bad hats. No, it is not so. There are many of us who do not know their mother tongue because of their past circumstances. During the colonial days, not everybody could attend school. Therefore, many clans, associations, set up schools to enable Chinese children to attend schools to learn Chinese. So those students who attended such schools were able to speak only Chinese. Whereas those who joined the few Government English schools could speak only English. This is 

 not their fault. They are not to blame. It is due to social circumstances then. There is no ulterior motive in our attempt or effort to promote the learning of mother tongue to their children. It is for the good and in the long-term interest of all concerned. So I hope that the Member for Potong Pasir will support this. I am also glad that the NCMP Member has also expressed his appreciation that the PAP recognized the danger to the society of too much Westernization, and I believe he would also agree to this plan for a set of National Ideology. 

  Mr S. Chandra Das (Cheng San GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to support the motion standing in the name of the Member for Siglap. Sir, I would also like to join the earlier speakers in congratulating the Government for clearly outlining its policies and programmes for the next five years. Now that the directions and policies are set, I believe it is up to us as Singaporeans to work with the Government to fulfil the goals outlined in the Presidential Address. Sir, in this context, I am extremely gratified that the hon. Member for Potong Pasir is supporting the motion of thanks. Sir, I believe after one term in this House he has finally seen light. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, my Ministry recognises that, with rising affluence and higher aspirations, Singaporeans will demand more leisure facilities. For the long term, we have safeguarded sufficient land for recreational use for a population of up to 4 million. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, the feasibility study is just being carried out . We will get a better idea of the time-frame of these developments after the study is available and we can have a chance to look at the recommendations. Some of the proposed land use on the offshore islands will entail additional reclamation and it could take quite a few years to do such a reclamation. 

    Sir, Mr Chiam asks about the privatisation of Telecom. The purpose of privatising Telecom is quite simple, which is to take Telecom to even greater heights. At the moment, most people agree that Telecom has done very well. Indeed, the World Competitive Report published in 1989 by the World Economic Forum based in Geneva, Switzerland, ranked Singapore as number one in the world in terms of telecommunication infrastructure, giving Singapore a total of 98.06 points out of a possible 100. Consultants appointed to study the feasibility of privatisation have also concluded that Telecom is efficiently managed. 

    Telecom also competes with the other telecommunication authorities in other countries. Contrary to what many people thought and what Mr Chiam has said, Telecom is not a monopoly. Every time you make an overseas telephone call, you can either pay the Singapore rate or have someone overseas call you up and pay the rate of the incoming call. In many cases, Singapore's rates are much lower than the rates for the incoming call. I think any businessman who has to do a fair amount of international calls knows that. Our IDD rates are generally much lower than the incoming calls. If you do comparisons, you will find that our domestic rates for local calls are also very, very low, compared to other countries. 

    Sir, Mr Chiam asks whether the rates will be regulated. One of the reasons for operating a private company instead of a statutory board, is that the company will have the flexibility to respond to market changes. Therefore you do not want now to regulate features that are best determined by the market, such as the charges that the company can make. If that is so, then we might as well stay as a statutory board. However, I am conscious of the fact that the interests of Singaporeans have to be protected. I have stated that very clearly, at the lass press conference, that we will take into account the public interests and to ensure that privatisation will not mean higher postal and telecommunication charges. 

  hoiyung: I am amazed by Dr Lee's remarks that we should keep quiet after the Americans have gone into Saudi Arabia. In fact, from what I have read and from what I know, there is no change of mood and opinion in South East Asia. A small segment of the people in our neighbouring countries may have expressed such a sentiment, but I believe the Governments have stood very firm in supporting all the UN Resolutions. So I am amazed that Dr Lee could suggest that Singapore should keep quiet after the multi-national force has taken their place in Saudi Arabia. If we were to keep quiet, then where should our position be? Are we so ambivalent and have no courage to speak up on the side of right? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the divide between hoiyung: Dr Lee, you want to make a clarification? 

 sions, we also studied all the letters in the press, one volume from Berita Harian and the other from the Straits Times. On the comments made that there are still people not very happy with this proposal, I would strongly suggest that Mr Chiam and those with the same view wait until Mendaki produces the report. Then having the report at hand and with all the arguments therein, maybe the reactions would be more sophisticated. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, you are not permitted to read the statement. 

  hoiyung: Sir, being a lawyer, Mr Chiam should know the difference between right, privilege and position. I am quite sure after Mr Chiam has read the report by the MMJC and meticulously study it, my Committee or Mendaki or both will answer any question on what we have recommended. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the question posed is entirely different from the question which Mr Chiam has asked. In fact, I have the answer here but I think his question should be just confined to whether we have done enough survey or not. But as far as the Government's decision which was made in 1960 is concerned, as I said just now, there is a difference between what he said and whether the Government honours it or not. I would suggest that he be very patient because I think the report will be 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if Mr Chiam prefers to be under the jurisdiction of the Korean National Security Agency, he is entitled to his view. But we in Singapore must decide based on the circumstances in our own country. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, in answer to the question asked by the Non-Constituency Member, the supplementary provision is really for payment of agency fees to the Urban Redevelopment Authority (URA) for acting as Government's agent in State Land sales. Agency fees are paid to URA for presale matters relating to tenders and after-sale services. These services include the identification and clearance of sales sites, tender specifications, processing of tenders and the collection of premiums that are due to the State. The rates of agency fees are always duly cleared by the Ministry of Finance. I do not have the details here, but if the Member wants the details I shall be happy to supply them. 

 NCMPs. But in my mind this must be increased substantially and I will suggest that we should increase up to the full number in this Chamber, as many as eight or nine. 

    Now that the NCMP concept has been accepted by at least one opposition party we should search for wider participation, wider representation so that a wider airing of dissenting views is possible. This Chamber must see a fuller debate of opposing ideas. It is therefore unfortunate that one of the NCMPs has been disqualified at the start of this Parliament. Provision should have been made to admit another NCMP in the event of such a disqualification. If this Chamber can rectify this shortcoming for this Parliament, I think we must do so. 

    On the Minister for Trade and Industry's proposal of creating non-Government MPs, I should like to remark that presently views of business, of workers, of unions and university academics are already given a good airing by my fellow Backbenchers. What is needed is better and good listening skills of the Frontbench. I am more in favour of giving time to the maturing of the NCMP scheme. In the next few elections, younger and better educated opposition members will find their way into this Chamber as NCMPs. This group who are better educated will find that their standing in the public does not necessarily depend on their taking on strong adversarial postures. In the age of the DAT, the digital-audio tapes, CDs, some 45 rpm records in the last Parliament and, of course, definitely 78 rpm records will be confined to the antique shops of Sungei Road. I am an optimist. 

    As far as the question of the second language policy is concerned, I think some people still think that the teaching of traditional values need not be done through the mother tongue. This happens mainly among the group of Chinese who were English educated. It is not their fault that they did not have the opportunity to receive an education or receive some language skills in the second language when they went to school. They may not even use dialects at home but they cannot help feeling that the Government's policy on language and culture has left them in a peculiar, if not uncomfortable, position. So they examine their own lives. They have done well. They have moved up in society and they have made contributions. So, like the Member for Potong Pasir, they ask, "What is wrong with westernization?" I think to address the anxieties of this group of English educated people we need to reiterate the message that the return to cultural values, the teaching of traditional values through the second language policy is really meant for the next generation. It is really directed at the younger people. Nobody need feel hurt or need feel uncomfortable. If he or she does not speak Mandarin or the mother tongue it does not matter. It is directed at the second generation. Granted, the greater concern of the English educated is over the problems faced by the children in coping with the study of CL2. They fear the children's future will be affected if they cannot cope. Thus one hears very frequently that professionals are leaving or intending to leave Singapore because of the Government's second language policy. If this is the main reason for the emigration of professionals, actually I personally doubt whether this is indeed the main reason, but I have no evidence to show, but even if it is the main reason, perhaps something can still be done about the method of teaching the second language. But I would not agree with any further lowering of the standard required because here we are talking not just about a minimum standard of proficiency as a means of communication or as a communicative skill. Here we are 

    I know that the Government is trying its best to bridge this gap. There is room for improvement. But it is trying. I believe that this Government is committed to a democratic way of life. How else could you explain the presence of a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament like hoiyung: Sir, may I be allowed to ask for clarifications in regard to two points? The first one is in regard to the statement made by Dr Ong. He said that over 1% drop of the PAP's vote is disappointing and disquieting. What I read in the papers about what the Ministers say was just the contrary - it was an overwhelming victory. How does he explain that this is disappointing and disquieting? 

    As regards representation, I think the NCMP scheme is a great step forward. We are the first to do it and I think other countries might think that we have found the key to stability in the Asian context. As hoiyung: Sir, may I be allowed to answer? 

  Dr Ong Chit Chung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to ask Mr Chiam whether he could confirm that he would support the proposal to expand NCMPs from 3 to 6. He is trying to wriggle out his way by giving so many comments but no firm commitment, one way or the other. Does he or does he not support the immediate expansion of NCMPs so that more Opposition voices or alternative views can be offered to this House? 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I ask Mr Chiam whether he is aware that 49% of the residents of Eunos GRC voted for the Workers' Party, and that is about 35,000 voters in all, and that is many more than those in Potong Pasir? And, therefore, Dr Lee represents 35,000 people? 

  hoiyung: Can Mr Chiam make his clarification before I call on you, Dr Lee? Yes, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Is Mr Chiam aware that Dr Lee comes in strictly under a constitutional arrangement as provided for in the Constitution as well as in the Parliamentary Elections Act? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, are you going on with another speech? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, I am allowing you to clarify your position regarding what Mr Chiam has said about NCMPs. But I think you should not embark on another speech on the National Ideology. 

    If Singapore's Cabinet is not the equal of the Board of a Bank in Singapore, I think Singapore will be in trouble. To succeed, we just got to have an exceptional Cabinet. There is no other alternative. And despite what Mr Chiam said about an alternative party taking over from Singapore should Singapore stumble, I can tell you there is just no alternative. I have been involved in scouring the whole of Singapore for talent for the PAP since 1977. I know most outstanding Singaporeans above the age of 35, either personally or by name. I made it a point to track them, to know who they are. Each time the register on lawyers or accountants or doctors is available, I make it a point to go through and check with people who may know of some outstanding names whom we may have missed out. I also make it a point to know who holds what position in which association. So if there are Singaporeans who have a sense of commitment, with extra energy to work for others, I will know who they are. I look for them in the Society of Accountants, the Law Society, the Medical Association, the Medical Council, the University and many other places. I have a register. I keep tab. 

    Let me tell you how I persuaded George Yeo. His reason for not coming in this term what he told me was that he was about to start a family. We went into all kinds of arguments, about the need to participate, security for the family and so on. His answer was still no. I never knew that he had a problem with his bond. Because to join us he had to pay up a large amount as liquidated damages for breaking his bond. I did not know that and George Yeo never raised it with me. But I think I persuaded him in this way. I told him, "George, do you have any interest in politics?" He said, "Yes." "Would you be considering a political career sooner or later?" He said, "Yes, but not now." I said, "If you are interested, you should come in now because the Prime Minister will be around in Cabinet for a while, to share with you his political experience, his wealth of knowledge, which I cannot share with you. If you come in later on and the Prime Minister is not in Cabinet, you would lose something." Well, I got George Yeo, and I think he is quite an acquisition for us and for the country. You heard him yesterday. Even Mr Chiam complimented him on his speech. He has two degrees, a Double First in Cambridge in Engineering. He went to Harvard, did his Masters in Business Administration, was awarded high distinction. But I did not get to know George Yeo only after he has got his high distinction in Business Administration from Harvard. 

 We spotted him way back in 1980 or thereabouts because of an article he wrote for the Pointer, which is an SAF magazine, talking about the security of small states. He showed a deep understanding of the fundamental problems that Singapore faces, and from then on we began to track him. The Prime Minister was tracking him too; so was I. If there are people who can form an alternative group to take over from PAP should we stumble, please let me know, Mr Chiam. There is no other group. George Yeo, we spotted him when he was in his early 20's and we watch him mature, be sure of his strength of character before we invited him to join the PAP. 

    How do we progress this? As a next step, we will put up a Green Paper to this House for further debate. We can then form a Parliamentary committee to debate the Green Paper, to collect views from members of the public because there are people outside who have contributions to make and we can include Mr Chiam See 

    Sir, there was a suggestion by the Member for Potong Pasir whether it would 

        2. Dr Lee Boon Yang

        2. Dr Lee Boon Yang

  The Senior Minister of State for Defence (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Prime Minister): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Prime Minister has asked me to answer this question. 

  hoiyung: So what is your supplementary question, Dr Lee? 

 core values cannot be effective if it is confined to a subject that is taught only at specific times and by specific teachers. As noted by the Member for Moulmein and the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thank our Non-Constituency Member of Parliament (NCMP) for his kind remarks and cautious reminder to political leaders to be good examples. I am glad that in the area of core values he is very much on our side. 

    May I suggest to the Member for Potong Pasir that, besides reading the Confucian ethics school textbooks - unfortunately he is not here - as suggested by Dr Aline Wong, he consult the hon. NCMP on matters related to Confucianism before he makes further pronouncements on the subject. 

  Dr Seet Ai Mee: May I suggest to the Member for Potong Pasir that, besides 

 reading the Confucian ethics school textbooks as suggested by Dr Aline Wong, he consult the hon. NCMP on matters related to Confucianism before he makes further pronouncements on the subject. 

  The Chairman: Order. Mr Chiam, I think you are straying from the subject. What has disco dancing and westernization got to do with class size? 

  hoiyung: I think you are straying, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please get back to your subjects. You are straying very far away. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have 10 minutes when you rise to speak, whether you have two subjects or three subjects. So you have one minute left. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your time is up. Please resume your seat. 

  Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: Mr Speaker, Sir, just a brief intervention. I think this dialogue can go on for a long time. But the fact of the matter is that you cannot put the cart before the horse. Things have to be taken step by step. As Dr Tay Eng Soon has said, we must get the teachers first and the Ministry of Education is exerting a number of steps in this direction. Once that is done, the Member for Potong Pasir will see that we will reduce class size and that his wishes will be granted. 

  hoiyung: Sir, can I take it that Dr Lee has spoken on both his amendments. 

 we have had in our Constitution from time immemorial. It is a practice rooted in good precedents from other Commonwealth countries, and there is no reason to change it just because the Workers' Party has criticised it. 

    I forgot to mention, Sir, that the Member has repeated the point about the Chief Justice and the constitutional amendment we made last year. I must state for the record that there was no mistake which was regularised. It was the Workers' Party's Secretary-General who raised it as an issue in the Privy Council. It was not adjudged, but because he raised the issue and raised it out, that was to put it beyond any doubt. 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee, are you withdrawing the amendment? 

  The Chairman: Dr Lee is not here. Mr Chay Wai Chuen. 

  The Minister for Community Development (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Obviously, Sir, Dr Lee has not been following the subject of Feedback Unit and the reports in the newspapers. All the things that he has suggested have actually be done. It is not just getting views from the grassroots organisations. Anyone can write to the Feedback Unit. Anyone can walk into the Feedback Unit, phone up the Feedback Unit or fax messages to the Feedback Unit. There is no restriction. Let me say again that there is no restriction on anyone wanting to give their views to the Feedback Unit. 

 many of the views which were put forward were accepted by the Ministry when it considered the weekend car scheme and announced it in the papers. So I do not know what precisely Dr Lee is griping about. If he thinks that his views have not been publicised or have not been heard, do so in this House. If he thinks that there are people who wish to take up issues with the Feedback Unit and have not been able to do so, let me know about it. I will look into it. 

  hoiyung: If other Members of Parliament do not routinely get a copy of these views, why should Dr Lee get one? 

  Dr Seet Ai Mee: Sir, in answer to Encik Abbas' query about the Sports Excellence Committee, the final report of the Committee has been prepared and is awaiting Mr Chiam's comments before it is confirmed and released. So until Mr Chiam's comments are received, we will not be able to show you a copy of the Report. 

  hoiyung: You may continue with your speech, Dr Lee. 

  hoiyung: You may proceed with your speech, Dr Lee. 

  Mr Goh Chee Wee: Dr Lee has said that the scheme is not unethical. I think his complaint is that the quantum of concessions and discounts given is too small. So can I invite Dr Lee to join the NTUC scheme and offer more than the 10% discount to our union members? 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Sir, I am surprised that Dr Lee brought all his questions here. Being a doctor, I would expect him to know what are the functions of the Singapore Medical Council (SMC) and to realise that the SMC is an independent body that in no way reports to the Minister for Health. On those detailed questions of his, I would invite him to write direct to SMC for the necessary answers. But, Sir, since he has brought up this issue with all those questions, I think it is important for me to clarify to the public the role of the SMC. 

    Dr Lee has asked his usual questions, or made his usual statements as he did last year that the MediShield programme is a dismal failure and that it is not attractive enough. Firstly, he claims that the premiums are not low cost. The premiums are very cheap for a person aged up to 30, he only pays $1 a month. For those aged 41 to 50, they pay $3 a month and all these are deductible through Medisave. The payments by Medishield are also very attractive. For those people who go to C Class wards after an initial expenditure of $500, they can start claiming from MediShi eld and MediShield will pay 80% of whatever they incur. For B2 patients, they pay $1,000. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have run out of time. Encik Abbas. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, barn swallows are migratory birds from the Northern Hemisphere. They fly here in September and leave the following year around March. They form communal roost at ledges and gable ends of some apartment blocks in Bukit Batok, Jurong West and Hougang. This phenomenon has come about only in the last couple of years. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Sir, the streamlining of HDB's estate management functions has not affected the arrangements for the collection of rent, loan instalment and service and conservancy charges. Residents can still make payments for current month dues at any HDB branch or 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, most of the unoccupied HDB flats are 3-room flats in Woodlands. Some of these flats are being converted into bigger flats to meet the new demand of Singaporeans. HDB has no plans to convert them into tourist accommodation. If an organisation, such as a hotel, supported by the Singapore Tourist Promotion Board, is able to come up with a feasible and workable proposal for converting entire vacant blocks to be used as interim tourist accommodation, my Ministry would be prepared to consider the idea. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, there are other vacant flats scattered here and there throughout the island but they are not in large enough numbers to warrant such an application. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Sir, yesterday Dr Wong Kwei Cheong, hon. Member for Cairnhill, asked for a status report on the problem of touting along Orchard Road. 

  hoiyung: The amendment has been withdrawn, Mr Chiam. Amendment No. (3), Encik Zulkifli. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, Dr Arthur Beng has asked whether some patients could be conveyed to private hospitals of their choice by ambulances from the Singapore Joint Civil Defence Forces. The emergency ambulance service operates within certain hospital catchment zones. These zones are drawn up by the Ministry of Health in consultation with the SJCDF and other agencies with the objective of spreading emergency patient load amongst the various Government hospitals. As far as the emergency ambulance service is concerned, its ambulance will send patients to the Government hospital within the catchment zone where the patient is picked up. This is to ensure that the emergency case can be transported to the nearest hospital as soon as possible so that the patient receives urgent medical attention. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, yesterday, Dr Arthur Beng raised the possibility of training a core of paramedics. My Ministry is actively conducting a feasibility study of establishing a paramedic team within the emergency ambulance service. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, I thought I will take up that point when I reply to Mr Lau Ping Sum because he has filed an amendment on this subject. Since he is not here, with your permission, can I respond to Dr Beng? 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Yesterday, in moving an amendment, Dr Beng asked whether the Fire Safety Bureau (FSB) could speed 

  hoiyung: Sir, I will answer to Mr Heng Chiang Meng's and Dr Lee's points. 

    Sir, hence far from being discriminated against, citizens and PRs can sponsor their immediate family members for permanent residence in Singapore much easier than any foreigners without roots in Singapore. But at the same time I hope that Mr Heng and Dr Lee will agree that we cannot have a completely open door policy. There are many people who would like to come to Singapore and unless these people can bring some benefits to us, can make some contribution to our economy through their skills or talents or training, it will be foolhardy for us to just blindly accept anybody who comes knocking. Under the circumstances, there will always be some who have to be refused because they are unable to meet our even very basic and liberalised criteria. 

    Sir, Dr Lee has spoken about the difficulty of citizens, ex-citizens, or ex-PRs to come back to Singapore. I think he is labouring under a wrong assumption. I think there is some confusion here. Let me clarify the situation to Dr Lee. Any ex-Singaporean or Singaporean who has emigrated, or ex-permanent resident, if he wants to come back to Singapore he is more than welcomed to return. All Singapore citizens who are living abroad are free to return to Singapore any time they wish. For those who had emigrated and surrendered their citizenship, they are also free to come back as a citizen of their newly adopted country, and if they want to work in Singapore and they have the skills and talents that we need, then we will give them employment pass liberally to work here. 

    I have already taken up the point which he mentioned about wives and children who have been denied entry into Singapore. These cases can be looked into. If Dr Lee knows of any particular case that warrants a review, I am quite happy to take it up. But Dr Lee should understand that we have, as I mentioned in my reply to Mr Heng, very liberal criteria to consider such cases. For those with roots in Singapore, whether they are wives, children or other roots or any other links to Singaporeans, 

    Dr Lee has also spoken about those who have been barred from entering Singapore for political reasons. As long as people represent a threat to our security, I think we are more than justified in denying them entry into Singapore. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, I will wait for the details from Mr Heng and I will look at them before giving a reply. 

    I will now take up the points raised by Mr Chiam because I want to answer in some detail in order to correct some of his misapprehensions about the way in which Government runs its fiscal affairs. 

    Mr Chiam seems to be under the impression that Government deliberately sets out each year to generate large budget surpluses and does so by regularly increasing taxes, levies and a whole range of charges in order to get the surpluses. I want to say categorically that this is not the case, and I will explain why. 

    The Government has three broad financial objectives. The first objective is to maintain a balanced budget over the long term. And by a balanced budget, I mean that the Government's recurrent and development expenditures should be financed from direct tax and indirect tax revenues. Revenue collections are generally strongly co-related with economic growth and tend to move up and down with economic growth cycles. On the other hand, Government's expenditures are much more inelastic and tend to grow steadily year after year, reflecting annual wage increases and the increasing demand for public services. This means that when revenue collections are buoyant during good economic years, the budget will usually be in surplus. But when the economy slows, as during recession years, budget deficits will appear. When surpluses are realised, the Government's policy is to set aside part of the surpluses to cover possible future deficits in down years and to return the balance to the private sector through cuts in corporate, personal income taxes and assets taxes, and there have been many recent examples of such tax cuts. So I do not understand Mr Chiam's claim that PAP continues to tax in order to achieve a budget surplus, and Dr Lee's claim last week that Government only takes and never gives. 

    Turning now to Mr Chiam's claim that the Government regularly increases taxes and levies in order to raise the revenue, I assume that he is referring to the charges levied on motor vehicles and on foreign workers. As I explained in the Budget debate, these are not revenue-raising measures but are financial measures introduced to achieve certain social objectives. For these reasons, the revenue gained cannot be relied on for the long term as the social objectives could change. In the case of motor vehicles, substantial changes have already been announced. In the case of foreign workers, a levy is the most efficient way to distribute and allocate a limited resource. The alternative of direct allocation would raise not only horrendous problems of administration but would also have the undesirable effects of depressing the wage levels of the Singapore workers. I am sure that is not what he wants. 

 should maintain this. For these reasons, we should not allow our reserves to be drawn down to finance recurrent expenditures, as advocated by Mr Chiam and also repeated by hoiyung: I did not. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyungasked the Minister for Home Affairs whether any decision has been made in the police investigations into the Workers' Party appeal for funds. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Swiss, as Mr Chiam has pointed out, have a few weeks of national service. The Germans do not have nine months. They have 15 months. In fact, until the recent dramatic developments in East Germany and Eastern Europe, they were talking about pushing it to 18 months, for precisely the same reason that we have to keep our national service period, namely, not enough German babies were born, not enough soldiers, and you need a longer period to maintain that same size of standing force. Now that situation has changed. There is no more talk of extending national service in Germany from 15 to 18 months. 

    Our situation has not similarly changed. We have not seen a total revision of the landscape in the Asia Pacific. There has not been a change of government, for example, in Indochina or in China. There has not been a change in the strategic relationships in the region. I will be answering this more fully when I address Dr Lee's Question shortly. But there is a difference between a reservist force which you can call up in an emergency, and a force in being which is there all the time. I have to do nothing extra if tension rises, because I already have the troops at the ready and prepared deal with against any eventuality. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, I am answering on behalf of my Minister. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, under the Relocation Programme, affected tenants will be granted priority allocation of either rental flats or purchase flats. This will minimize any inconvenience to the affected tenants of these rental flats because they would be able to find alternative accommodation as close as possible to their original residence. In the case of those who want to buy flats, they will also get priority when flats are available in the nearby area. 

  hoiyung: Point of clarification. If the NCMP felt so strongly that the Marxists' arrests were so unpopular with the people of Singapore, why did he not take up the invitation of the Government that he or any other political party make it an election issue before the September 1988 elections? We asked them to make it an issue. His party did not make it an issue. And also, every other previous arrests before an election, does he not know that the PAP fought it as an election issue and won the mandate of the people? 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (9), Encik Yatiman is not moving. Amendment No. 10, Dr Lee. 

    SBC's practice of not telecasting Cantonese serials, I think, is well known. It actually stopped in 1982, not 1980 as the NCMP, Dr Lee, mentioned. SBC's practice was obviously in support of Government policy to promote the use of Mandarin rather than dialects. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have two subjects. You have to take them together. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I just want to remind you that you have one minute left to speak on the other subject. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, Mr Chiam, raised the question about his role in the community centre and whether he should be appointed as an adviser. My colleague, the Minister for Labour, will deal with this as the Deputy Chairman of PA. But let me add one point about his role as Town Council Chairman. He has been elected by the people precisely to run the Town Council. Whether he wants it to be a political organization or not it is entirely up to him. He can appoint his SDP members to serve in the Town Council or he can appoint one of them to serve or he can appoint none to serve. He is entirely free to run the Town Council as he pleases because what the Town Council envisages is that the MP must have the responsibility for the running of the Town Council. 

    This topic brought up by Mr Chiam, the Member for Potong Pasir, is something which he has brought up almost without fail in every Budget session. 

    I think Mr Chiam has been trying to squeeze the maximum political mileage out of this single issue every year because he refuses to be convinced by the rationale and the genuine answers that we have given. I do not know how else I can convince him. Perhaps I have another point that was not mentioned in the past. If he were to refer to the 1985/86 Budget Document which was prepared before the elections in December 1984, he will find that there is a statement in there which says that the Senette CC will be replaced by the modern CC which was built with the intention of replacing that CC. He must realize that the PAP did not go into the elections expecting to lose the election. So already in 1984 the Community leaders were told that there was a need to build a better CC because Sennette CC was not up to the full standard of a modern CC. So plans were afoot to raise funds and to move to this modern CC when it was built. So that is what has happened since. But the Member insists year in and year out that it was closed to do him in. That is not the reason, Sir. The reason is a very simple one, and that is we do have manpower and other resource constraints in the PA, like in other Government organizations. There is, for example, a freeze on the recruitment of staff. Therefore, although MPs would like to have, not only Mr Chiam but other MPs, more than one CC in each constituency, it is just not possible. So what we have to do is to try and upgrade and provide the best CCs possible to serve the residents. As a result of the delineation of the election boundaries, certain constituencies have more than one CC. In fact, we are wondering how to make use of some of these other CCs. Maybe PA should run one and the other one should be leased out to other organizations, I do not know. But the point is that we have to conserve manpower and provide CCs as centralized facilities for the use of the residents in the most convenient point where there are the most number of people who can be served. 

    The other issue concerns why he has not been appointed adviser to the CC in Potong Pasir. The reason is very simple. The PA is a statutory board. Its objective is to carry out Government policies, according to what the Government thinks best. Of course, these policies are the policies of the PAP, which is the ruling party. There is no rule in the Constitution or anywhere else that says the MP who happens to be elected in a constituency should be appointed the adviser to the CC. So naturally the Government would appoint those people who are most suitable to carry out the Government's policies. If, for example, the Member for Potong Pasir would declare that from now on he will support all Government policies, maybe we will consider appointing him. But the mere fact of his having been elected in Potong Pasir does not mean that he has the right to go into the CCs, into the schools, into the other Government facilities in Potong Pasir. He is elected to represent the constituents in Parliament. Now with the introduction of Town Councils, he has a bigger role. He has to run the estate to look after conservancy and so on. But that is a different matter from running the other organizations, the other Government machineries such as the PA, which are meant to carry out the Government's objectives. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, we are running out of time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you wind up? There are still a number of persons who want to speak. 

    In answer to the Member for Potong Pasir, there is a sports fund for sportsmen, managed by the Singapore Sports Council 

  Dr Seet Ai Mee: Is that enough, $5 million? Mr Chairman, Sir, I also find the comments from the Member for Potong Pasir very strange. He is commenting that money is being spent on capital. Other people are asking for money to be spent on capital and here he seems to be criticizing us for money being spent on capital. In the Report of the Advisory Council on Sports and Recreation, comment was made that the Singapore Sports Council will have to construct special facilities to cater for all new activities to be introduced. So every year money will be set aside for capital funding for the Singapore Sports Council. I think he should be glad rather than critical because one cannot be a good sportsman if there are no sports facilities available. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, the problem with Dr Lee is that he keeps harking back to the old days. We are living in 1990. The world has changed. The communist system has crumbled. He should not behave like a Rip van Winkle, always bringing us back to the old days, not realising what has 

  Mr Chandra Das: He does not qualify to be a member of the Youth Wing. But nevertheless, Sir, let us make this very clear. In fact, we have always felt that some of our Ministers have been more guarded and more conservative in responses to issues raised by our Malaysian friends. Take, for example, a Malaysian Minister openly criticising the Prime Minister of Singapore for being insincere. Our response was a very guarded response. In fact we tried to justify, explain, and for Dr Lee to say that we are not being sensitive to views of our neighbours is rather incorrect. 

    I do not know whether Dr Lee wants us to behave like a vassal state. Are we a vassal state of our neighbours? We are an independent state. It is our own interests that we should protect. Maybe Dr Lee should really re-examine what should be our relations with our neighbours. 

  In Mandarin): Sir, with regard to Dr Lee's remarks, may I also ask him why must we become the subject of a scolding from Malaysia? Why must we become Mr A to be scolded all the time? 

  Dr Koh Lip Lin: Dr Lee just said that we should not take people's words at face value. But does that apply to him? 

    I am surprised by what Dr Lee said when he suggests that Singapore Ministers 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of Defence and Government Whip. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I note that the Member for Potong Pasir is not here but I will answer the Question. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, between July 1989 when the scheme to attract Hong Kong talents was announced until 11th February this year, 20,038 applications for permanent residence were received from Hong Kong residents. Approval in-principle was given to 8,605 skilled workers and technicians under the newly liberalised scheme to attract such skilled workers from Hong Kong. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, to answer the Member's question, I must refer him to the Ministry of Home Affairs' press statement on 10th July 1989 which announced the liberalisation of the rules 

 have in our Cabinet, and in Parliament, Ministers and MPs of so many different faiths -Christians, Muslims, Buddhists, Taoists, Confucianists, agnostic, no religion, free thinker, Hindus and maybe one or two others. And we had to take into account the reservations and apprehensions of the MPs and the Ministers. They asked the questions which MPs are now asking: Will the Bill be misunderstood? Could the Bill be abused by a less honest government in future? These are very legitimate questions and it shows our concern as a body of politicians over how a Bill can be misconstrued and over abuses of a Bill. And I think it is a healthy trend that we should show such concern. But as we discussed and as we pursued our points, and as we worked and improved on the Bill, a clear consensus emerged. I am glad to say that the White Paper and the Bill reflect the unanimous view of all my Cabinet colleagues. I cannot say, however, whether it reflects the unanimous view of all MPs, the PAP MPs. I know that the Workers' Party MP does not quite agree with this. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I would like to seek a point of clarification from the Member for Potong Pasir. He has concluded that the Maria Hertogh riot has got nothing to do with religion. But is not the Member aware that the target of the violence was mostly against Christians and there was no Chinese or Buddhist involved. And that riot was purely between Muslims and Christians. Was that not a religious-related riot? He also concluded that the July 1964 riot was purely and absolutely racial. May I ask him whether he was aware that the riot was triggered during a procession of Prophet Mohammed's Birthday celebration in which I was one of the witnesses. 

  hoiyung: Sir, despite his lengthy explanation, I am afraid that the Member for Potong Pasir does not have the full knowledge before he draws his conclusion. I am concerned because the conclusion arrived from that inadequate knowledge could be misleading in supporting his view that the two riots were absolutely unrelated to religion. So my appeal is that I would hope that the Member would in future do a proper study before coming to his conclusions. 

    Sir, we have religious harmony for some time. We hope that this will last forever. Will it? I am not sure of this. Mr Chiam thinks that it will, but he will probably also join me to think that it may not be possible for us to forecast what it is going to be like. Sir, we cannot take for granted that this will last. There is no guarantee unless all Singaporeans of various religious persuasions work towards the maintenance of religious harmony. Though this is difficult, we have to attempt to try and get them to work together. Religious differences are like time bombs. All we need are a few irresponsible fanatics to light the fuse to create religious discord. It is these irrational people that we must take actions against triggering religious tensions and conflicts. 

    Sir, you and I and many of my parliamentary colleagues have experienced two racial riots when we were young. These were started by religious fanatics and subversives. There were many untold miseries that we have all experienced and we know of and they are all very grim situations that we have all had some exposure to. We have suffered gravely by these setbacks which left much bitterness that took a long time to resolve. I remembered my peace loving neighbours saying that they felt that it should never have happened, but it did. Mr Chiam hopes that religious harmony would continue, but would it? I think it is a basic question that we will all have to ask ourselves. These are things of the past that I cannot easily forget. Therefore, I would like to urge all Singaporeans to see the Bill as a safeguard for our long term societal stability. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I wish to thank Members who have spoken during this debate and I also want to make the observation that except for two Members, the NCMP and the Member for Potong Pasir, the principles in the Bill have received almost unanimous support from the other Members although they have expressed legitimate concerns and made suggestions for improvement. What is even more remarkable is that the Members who have spoken in support come from a wide variety of religious faiths. I think that augurs well for our country and also underlines the need to ensure that we preserve this state of affairs. 

  hoiyung: Mr Das, are you allowing Mr Chiam to clarify? 

  The Chairman: All right. Mr Chiam, you can have your say afterwards. 

    For comparison, Sir, we should think of salaries of Permanent Secretaries in other countries, as mentioned by Mr Chiam, not necessarily of countries around us in South-East Asia but of salaries in other developed countries, like Britain, Australia, New Zealand, elsewhere. And if we want to compare the public sector vis-a-vis the private sector, then we should compare also, very importantly, all the salaries at the bottom. As you all know, 70% of the workers in Singapore earn less than $1,000 a month. They will find it very difficult as time goes by, whereas those at the top will find it only too easy. And if you want to talk of raising salaries of civil servants right at the top, what about having a minimum wage for the workers? The Government has not mentioned that at all. I do not know why the Second Deputy Prime Minister has not mentioned that at all. He is supposed to be looking after the workers. But all I can see is he gets an office which is a sinecure. 

    Sir, on the Ministers salaries, I also agree with Mr Chiam that there is no basis for comparison whatsoever. It is wrong to compare Ministers' salaries with those in 

    Many people including the Member for Potong Pasir and the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament have stressed the point - and our own MPs have also stressed the point - that a sense of mission and a sense of public service are needed for people who intend to go into politics. I agree that these are essential requirements. No one who does not have a sense of mission or a sense of public service should go into politics. While these are two essential requirements and they are necessary, we should ask ourselves whether they are sufficient, not now, but particularly for the future? 

    Sir, the Singaporean knows that in our context, it is the policy maker who decides policy and if the policies are right, things go well for the country and it is quite ridiculous to consider that the policy-makers, the Ministers and Ministers of State, should be paid less than civil servants who in fact are the executors of the policy. If we want, first of all, the policies to be right then we ought to have the right people in those places, then comes the civil service. So our priority must be to make sure that in our system we always shall have the best talent available in the country in political leadership. Ideals are important. They drive a country forward but ideals will only produce certain results and I submit to Mr Chiam that in the days of the Empire it was not pure idealism that drove British people overseas to conquer 

 hot seat. It is much easier to be a Permanent Secretary. "Don't have to worry about answering either the Member for Potong Pasir or the Non-Constituency Member. These are my recommendations. They are logical. It's been done in these following countries. That is your choice, Minister. Choose." The theory that you can have anybody elected to office in Singapore and it will carry on is just stupendously stupid. It will not. And the Permanent Secretaries are the first ones to tell you that. They know. You can have it in Britain and America. Their leaders are good communicators. To be elected you have to be. But they make no bones about it. You see the way the American Press treated President Reagan. Hands off President, dozing off at Cabinet meetings, not interested, goes to sleep early. That is not the point. In that system, do you want to be President? For years you go around the country pumping hands, making speeches, to get support, and if you are no good at the television screen you are out. Good PR, then you win. The rest, you pick bright Secretaries who are prepared to give up their jobs. Like George Schultz who gave up his job as Chief Executive of Bechtel in California to become Secretary of State for 6(r) years. For a pittance. Yes, but then that is their system. I urge you to take a hard headed approach. 

 times, the market decides it. We had created a situation in which it is no longer possible to tell the young man: you will follow this. Indeed that was what was available to Tan Teck Chwee - there were two jobs in the Civil Service and only two a year. Other than that you are a teacher or you try and run a small shop. Chou En-lai, 100% and others 50%? Chou En-lai and China are in trouble. A generation that sacrificed everything, finds its children vulnerable to the good things in life, and finds their successor-generation also wanting the good life; and they do not know how to stamp out corruption. It is so vast. Anybody who goes to Hong Kong regularly, as I do, knows that if you want to do business you must learn to do what? The Hong Kong merchants and entrepreneurs arrange, they have to arrange, for many things, including the education of the top cadres with whom they deal, education of their children in America, because that is what they want. Says hoiyung: Sir, before I make my observations, I just want to make a couple of points in reply to the Non-Constituency MP, Dr Lee. He said that in 1958 when he was asked to stand as a PAP candidate in Kallang he was afraid of the ISA. I do not think that is quite correct 

    In 1963, the results of the general elections showed that the Barisan captured only 13 of the 51 seats. They became an Opposition but the NCMP himself was not in this House. In 1966, the Barisan went out of Parliament and took up extra parliamentary struggle, and for some time the NCMP decided not to take part in elections. But strange enough in the 1970s, he stood again. But when he said he did not change, I do not believe him because in the 1988 general elections he led his Party into the Workers Party and stood as a Workers Party candidate. I leave it to the House to see whether what he said is correct or not. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I knew that the NCMP would come out and say that-don't mix up the ISA with PPSO because basically it is the same. I say, no. Because in 1958, PAP was not in power. It was the Lim Yew Hock government. That is the difference I am trying to make. So let us not go around in this wild political rhetoric. I understand that. That is why I have deliberately made that point. 

    It is a very natural, reasonable, understandable human reaction. We see it each time we look for an MP. We see it even more each time we look for Ministers, and I think the Opposition Members know this. Dr Lee said, if we need good people in politics, why not get the old generation leaders back? Because that was a different generation, a different situation, different compulsions, and different results. But are the young men the same? 

    Mr Chiam raised the question: What is the basis for paying those who enter the public service? I think he has a point. What the Minister can contribute is huge compared to what you can pay him. He makes one wrong decision, 30,000 workers will go unemployed for three or four years. We just had one recession. 30,000 times three or four years to one, and the NCMP cavils over salary ratio of 30:1. The contribution, and for that matter the potential subtraction from the national wealth and welfare, is enormous compared to what you can pay. 

    Other people have tried to limit the ratio of top to bottom salaries, Vietnam for one. I do not know if the NCMP might have read what one Vietnamese Minister said recently. It would have made painful reading for him, but I think it was Nguyen Van Linh in Delhi who said: "What's all this? People are criticizing us (speaking about Vietnam) for having differentials in salary. We have had 30 years of equality in salary, and all it is has led to is misery, stagnation and decay. So let's not talk about equality of salary." This is a Politburo member speaking, another fallen idol. Do we have to go through the same trauma to reach the same conclusion? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not propose to speak at length on the subject because it has been well debated and discussed. However, we owe Mr Chiam an answer. He has raised some queries and I should provide him with the information. 

    As for Ministers' pay in other countries, I did not provide them earlier because I thought they would not be relevant for our discussion. What Ministers get in each country depends on the political culture of the country. UK has a different culture; Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, they have different political cultures and the pay is therefore not really relevant to our discussion today. Anyway, if you have a good man available somewhere else, you cannot get hold of him, whatever his worth to us. But I will provide the figures since Mr Chiam has asked for them. I do not have the figure for Australia but I have it for Britain, Japan and some Asean countries. We do not know the supplementary income because in other countries they have other less obvious ways of remunerating the Ministers. The figures I am going to quote are published figures available from documented sources. 

 kept low so that they will not be an incentive to those who are working to stop doing so and instead live on PA allowances. The PA rates, as explained by Dr Lee, are based on the minimum household expenditure as computed by the Chief Statistician. It covers basic items such as food, rent, utilities and other expenses. The Advisory Council for Family and Community Life has recommended a review of the minimum household expenditure and so have several Members today. 

    In answer to the Member for Potong Pasir, we not only need buildings for the new child care centres, we need also to train child care teachers. And currently, the greater need is for more child care teachers. There are many child care centres in Singapore which are operating at 70-80% capacity because they do not have sufficient staff. So this is why this year we have addressed the urgent situation of providing more training for child care givers. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I was just quoting what Mr Chiam said on Wednesday. He did not say that we do not have a welfare programme akin to the United States. I am willing to refer to the Hansard. He said "we do not have a welfare programme". 

  hoiyung: Are you concerned, Mr Chiam? 

  An hon. Member: He is trying to save you, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Yes, there is going to be the thrust. Mr Chiam has raised this question about him not being involved in the Government's grassroots organisations. It bears repeating that the Residents' Committees, the Citizens' Consultative Committees, the Management Committees of the community centres, are all Government organisations with the purpose of promoting community spirit, community cohesion and helping in the community development effort of the nation. 

    Mr Chiam is not an adviser to these organisations. But this does not make these organisations political organisations. In fact, the appointment of advisers is not based on the fact that the person is an MP or not an MP. The answer has been given before in this House that a person may be appointed an adviser if he is able to guide, counsel and help provide direction for these organisations in the conduct of activities on behalf of the Government. But if Mr Chiam were to say that now he will be prepared to help the Government in its explanation of policies and that, whenever called upon to do so, he will also help the Government in its efforts in community development in regard to the policies and campaigns that the Government conducts, then we will be prepared to consider Mr Chiam as an adviser. But I am not sure if that will be to Mr Chiam's advantage. 

  hoiyung: Then the forum for Mr Chiam to make all these points that he does not agree with is this House. Outside this House where there are community organisations, like the RCs and CCCs, if he says, "I do not support this. Now let us go out and campaign against the Government", then he will be making use of these organisations for his own political objective. That will not be acceptable. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this is about the sixth time the Member for Potong Pasir has brought this matter up in this House. If it is around the sixth time, I can assure him that he will not be on TV tonight because TV only reports current news. 

    Sir, MCD does not control private libraries, only Government ones. If the Member for Potong Pasir wishes to have his own library, he can choose his own site, pay the normal rent, furnish it with his own books and, lo and behold, Potong Pasir will have its own library. I do not see why he keeps on bringing this issue up in the House when other Members, who do not have branch libraries in their constituencies, do not bring the matter up. If residents of other constituencies are happy to go to other branch libraries, like Jurong East or Toa Payoh even if they are not in Toa Payoh, I do not see the problem and therefore the expected answer he wants to get from me is not obtainable. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not doubt that it is a good thing, but we are saying that he does it himself. We are not helping anybody else to start up their own branch library in their own constituency so, I do not see why we should do that for the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, could you allow me to respond to Mr Chiam? He is trying to paint a picture that HDB is dodging the issue or trying to pass the buck by asking him to seek clearance with MCD. 

    Sir, HDB receives numerous requests for premises, either on the void deck or other premises within the estates that it manages. HDB is in no position to assess the legitimacy or the worthiness of each and every cause. Therefore, HDB has to ask MCD, which is far more familiar with all these organisations, to vet these applications. In the case of a library, all we are saying is that if MCD thinks that Potong Pasir needs a branch library of its own and that the residents cannot be served by any other means, then HDB will be prepared to treat it as a community organisation and let it have the space that it needs at the community organisation's rate, ie, at a subsidized rate. But on the other hand, if MCD, which is in charge of providing such services to the people, is of the opinion that there is no necessity for an additional library in Potong Pasir, then HDB cannot, in all its conscience, provide subsidized facility or premises to the Member for Potong Pasir. But, nonetheless, he is welcomed to start up his library. We have space there. He can always make a tender for a space under market rate and he can use it as a library if he chooses to. 

  hoiyung: Sir, obviously the Member for Potong Pasir did not listen to my answer. I said that over the next five years my Ministry will build three more branch libraries in Tampines, Yishun and Hougang. So when completed there will be 11 branch libraries plus the main Library. As far as our calculations go and as far as our Library policy goes, that is sufficient for the population of Singapore. 

  The Chairman: Yes, Mr Chiam, more words? 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir were to go to the Toa Payoh branch library on Monday at 11.00 am, he can borrow any number of books and he will not have to wait at all. 

  The Chairman: Would you like to withdraw your amendment now, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I be permitted to check on the facts? I disagree with the Member for Potong Pasir that we did not get any medal during the Commonwealth Games but I may be wrong. 

  hoiyung: Yes, Mr Chiam, we have two minutes left for this amendment. 

  hoiyung: Sir, when we say sports excellence, we mean sports excellence. It is something we are working towards. And if the Member for Potong Pasir would like to assist us in this programme, we would be very willing to invite him into one of our committees promoting sports excellence. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to seek a point of clarification from Mr Chiam. I would like to reserve my right to speak again later on. I will not comment on his rather remarkable offer to stand guarantee for Mr Chia Thye Poh, although I personally fail to understand how after one man has committed violence, forcing another presumably innocent and peaceable MP out of Parliament and out of politics, will help either to repair the damage, or to further the interest of the country. 

    But I only want to ask him one question. Mr Chiam said that the PAP, despite having been returned overwhelmingly in the last General Election, does not have a mandate to amend the Internal Security Act and restore the status quo ante. May I, therefore, ask him: Firstly, whether it is not true that in the last General Election in the PAP's Party programme, there was a specific section explaining the PAP's stand on the ISA, reasserting that the PAP believed the ISA was necessary, would use it with judgment and impartiality, and would campaign on it to seek the support of the 

 people on this specific point? And secondly, why Mr Chiam in all his election campaigns since 1976 - 1979, 1980, 1984, and particularly 1988, did not at any time during the campaigns raise this issue and did not make this generous offer to stand guarantor for Mr Chia Thye Poh, in order to get public support and backing for him to come here and say he is speaking on behalf of the people of Singapore? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the reason the ISA did not get discussed was not for want of trying of the Government or the PAP. The reason it was not discussed was that all the Opposition parties, including the Workers' Party and those who had newly joined the Workers' Party, funked the issue. May I quote, therefore, to establish this from the Party programme, the PAP Programme "More Good Years", which we issued before the Election campaign and, when we gave a press briefing introducing this programme, I specifically highlighted these paragraphs: 

    I would have thought, Mr Speaker, Sir, that is as clear a statement as you can make. The cards were put on the table. Ican understand Mr Chiam might be squeamish about making a speech on this subject in an election campaign. But I would further ask whether a corresponding paragraph could be found in the SDP or Workers' Party manifesto. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you resume your seat? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, can you resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, before you rise to speak, you have to seek my permission first. 

    Dr Lee, can you finish your clarification? 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: Sir, I have two points of clarification for the Member for Potong Pasir. Firstly, he said that the Advisory Board is seen by the public not to be independent. I would like him to clarify as to his own views. Does he see it as an independent board? 

    Secondly, in his enthusiasm to champion the cause of Chia Thye Poh, he has made an offer to resign as the Member for Potong Pasir. If that is the case, will he not be letting down the people of Potong Pasir who have voted for him? 

    Unfortunately, there has been some confusion in some quarters of the public, and I believe also in the mind of the Member for Potong Pasir: some confusion between a political opponent of the Government and a subversive who seeks to overthrow the Government. A political opponent, Sir, works within the system. A subversive uses unconstitutional means to achieve his objective. This confusion may have arisen partly because some subver- 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has mentioned Mr Chia Thye Poh. I believe that the Government has stated its position before that if Chia Thye Poh were to renounce the use of force, he could be considered for release. I believe he has not to this date renounced the use of force for political objectives. 

    The situation in South-East Asia evolved in a markedly different manner from that in Europe. In the South-East Asia region the nexus between human rights and the companion concept of responsibility is a more critical one. After World War II the countries in the region were largely still colonies struggling for independence. The birth of new countries of South-East Asia was accompanied by a certain amount of travail which included regional hostilities and communist guerilla movements. The communist movements in Singapore and Malaysia were not nationalist ones but were based on ideological lines. Unlike European communists, the CPM attempted to gain power through guerilla warfare and violence. The threats by the CPM to the existence of order in Singapore required unique solutions. The CPM has also changed its tactics in response to political and social changes in Singapore. The arrests and subsequent statements by the Marxist conspirators in 1987 have shown that the CPM has not discarded its intentions to undermine and overthrow the Government. Despite what the Member for Potong Pasir said, Sir, between 1973 and 1985, 45 civilian police officers and other officials were killed by the communists in Malaysia. 

    The re-arrest of the Marxist conspirators, the arrest of Patrick Seong and also the arrest of Francis Seow all these took place before the September general elections. There was an uproar both among Opposition parties and also among overseas human rights groups, like the Amnesty International, Asiawatch, and so on. We answered them point by point and reminded them that in using the ISA the PAP Government had the mandate of the people of Singapore, freely and repeatedly given in successive general elections in which the ISA had been an issue. Mr Chiam said we did not make this an issue, we did not raise this. He has conveniently forgotten that it was in the PAP manifesto. BG Lee quoted you the passage from our manifesto just now. Indeed, even before the elections in April 1988, our press statement on Francis Seow had a paragraph on this. And if I may remind Mr Chiam, let me quote this paragraph to refresh his memory: 

    The Opposition parties ducked the issue. Mr Chiam who has contested five elections (1976, 1979, 1980, 1984 and 1988) has not campaigned against the ISA during the elections. Even Francis Seow, the "great" champion of human rights in Singapore, conceded that the ISA was needed, although he said, rather softly, that the use of ISA against him personally was wrong. But he did not follow up in the elections. He did not tell the whole electorate what the abuses were. He did not explain or prove to the electorate that there has been an abuse of power insofar as he was concerned under the ISA. 

  Mr Speaker: Would you like to give way to Dr Lee to make a clarification? 

    Sir, the effect of the amendment is to merely clarify the existing legal position. The Government's point is that the Chief Justice can be appointed after reaching retirement age of 65 under the existing constitutional position. A question as to the validity of that mechanism has been raised in the Privy Council very briefly. In order to avoid any such suggestion, the Constitution is being amended to make it clear that the Government can advise the President to continue the appointment of a Chief Justice after he retires or reaches retirement age. That is no different from the decision taken by the Government in the first place to appoint a judge. A judge is appointed by the President on the advice of the Government. So in that sense, I think Dr Lee has missed the point. 

 firmly believe in and accept the ISA. At the end of the day, under our system of parliamentary democracy, this proposed Bill will become law because the Government has the total support of the House, bar perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir since Dr Lee has no vote on this point anyway. However, that, if anything, imposes a greater obligation on the Government. 

  Mr Davinder Singh (Toa Payoh GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to respond, if I may, to a couple of points, the first made by the Member for Potong Pasir. In his address to this House, the Member produced an undertaking which reads: 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I think you should not make any more clarifications. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, do you want to make a clarification? 

  hoiyung: Sir, could I ask Mr Chiam who told him that the American bases in the Philippines are to protect us from the Communists? 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam is not clear. The Question is, "That the Bill be now read a Second time." 

  Mr Speaker: Dr Lee, do you wish to give way to the Member? 

  Mr Peter Sung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to seek a point of clarification from Dr Lee. He said that Philippines is not so peaceful. Is he aware that security officers in the Philippines have complained of the frustrations they have about the constraints of having to face the normal rules of evidence in court, and that they have asked for the Singapore model or the Malaysian model of the ISA to be introduced there? It is not just a question of whether the ISA exists or not, but whether there is any abuse of the powers under the ISA. For example, in the Philippines under Marcos, there was no ISA. But there was wholesale abuse of power leading to the "denial of liberty and justice", in the words of Dr Lee. 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Lee, the time allotted to you has expired. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, I have ruled that your time is over. Could you resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I am giving you another warning. You do not rise to make a clarification unless permission has been given. The Chair has recognized Mr Shanmugam. 

    As for the first question, I wanted to know the relevance of stating the time limits taken by the court and the fact that the Court of Appeal did not decide on the substantive merits of the application. How is that relevant to a debate in this House? Because can this House tell the courts what to decide, why to decide, what reasons to give for a decision or how long should the court take in deciding to hear habeas corpus applications? We do not have any such powers. So I wanted Dr Lee to clarify why he was raising that point. 

  hoiyung: Yes, Mr Chiam, you want to make your clarification? 

  Mr Peter Sung: Can I ask Mr Chiam this question. Earlier when he talked about the amendment he said that he has the highest regard for our courts. He also said that the PAP talked about the Elected President during the recent elections. My question for Mr Chiam is whether by quoting this example in his argument, he agrees with the principle of the Elected President. Let us have it on record. The second question is, if he has the highest regard for our courts, why must we go to the Privy Council? 

  Mr Speaker: Dr Lee, what is the clarification? 

  hoiyung: Yes, Mr Chiam. Mr Chiam, this is the last clarification I am granting you. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, that matter was discussed during the debate on the previous Bill and it has been disposed of. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, first, I must thank the Member for Chua Chu Kang, Dr Low Seow Chay, for his support of this Bill. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I point out that under the Standing Orders, after the Minister has given his reply, the debate, in fact, has ended. You should have spoken before the Minister gave his reply. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I cannot permit you to make a speech at this stage. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Chiam can speak during the Committee stage. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I point out that at Committee stage, we are not to go into the principles and the general merits of the Bill. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can I know the relevance of what you are saying to this Bill? 

    Finally, this question from the NCMP. Mr Speaker has already ruled that some of his questions were irrelevant. Nevertheless, I would like to say that in regard to the reduction in income tax which was introduced in the previous budget, the reduction was not from 44% to 33%. It was from 40% to 33%. It was introduced at a time when the country was going through a recession and it was a measure to assist companies to improve their after-tax profitability in order to help the economy come out of the recession. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to support the Bill because the Bill provides a fairly comprehensive approach to deal with the modern problems of beggary. The NCMP, Dr Lee, has said that there is still serious destitution in Singapore and destitutes are being criminalized. But I wonder whether he has, done any analysis and reviewed some of the problems relating to these people. I note that many of these people who are involved in beggary and other related activities are, in fact, people who have serious mental and other problems. They have been discharged from Woodbridge Hospital and subsequently sent to their homes. They somehow leave their homes and then get into a state of vagrancy. These are the people that we are dealing with. People who are partially mentally deranged and do not know where to operate. Some of these cases require rehabilitation. They require support. I see the Bill makes provisions to assist them. 

 lot of time and public money looking after them, taking care of their health and so on. That is not for the Government to do. The Government wants to take care of those people who are homeless, destitutes, in the streets and give them board and shelter and, if they are able-bodied, help them to re-integrate back into society so that they can become useful citizens. But there are people who just are not amenable to rehabilitation or welfare treatment. They prefer to go back to the streets to beg. For such able-bodied persons there is no need for them to beg. There are jobs available. There are jobs that go a-begging. We have 150,000 or more foreign workers. Why is there a need for able-bodied persons to beg? This Bill is directed at such people. It is not directed at people who are unable to work, who are homeless, destitutes or vagrants. For these categories of people, we will look after them in the welfare home. The welfare home is not that bad a place. I have been there. I know Dr Lee went there the other day and my officers told me about that. He went there unannounced, uninvited. 

    Despite the comfort or the decent life in the home, there are still people who prefer to be outside than to be confined in the institution. The person who asked Dr Lee to go to the home to visit him is one such person. He prefers to be out rather than to stay in the home. He is a vagrant. There were complaints received about him, and 

 therefore he was picked up and housed in the home. If he has visible means of support and there is somebody else looking after him, by all means, let the person look after him. In fact, he asked Dr Lee to be his care person, from what I understand. If Dr Lee is willing to do that, we will release the person to him. 

    It is a load of rubbish, I would say, of Dr Lee's earlier remark that these people do not have enough to eat. There is more than enough to eat. In the past the food was cooked in the home but because of some health control problems we decided to let outside caterers provide three meals a day, and this is not insignificant compared to what many people outside the home get. 

    As for Mr Chiam's comments, let me assure him that if a person is destitute and he has no place to go, and if he were to perform in a public place and becomes a busker - I think that is what the Member is referring to - then I think he will be picked up by the Environment Ministry, if not by the MCD, for causing a nuisance in a public street and noise pollution. There are times when a person is allowed to perform in public places, eg, during our cultural festivals. Then I think in those circumstances these musicians or show-biz persons would not be mistaken for vagrants or beggars. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the only instance as was told to me why the residents asked for more was when Dr Lee visited the home with some of his friends. He brought some tangerine, and some cakes, but there was not enough to share around. So they asked for more. Had he brought enough, I think they would not ask for it. So the Home Superintendent, I was told, decided that in order to be fair they gave those cakes and tangerine only to the ladies rather than to the men because there were fewer women than men. 

  hoiyung: So when Dr Lee visited the home, it was between 9.30 and 10.30. That was not meal time and so he could not have known for a fact that they did not have enough to eat. He could not have known. It is not the tight control that we exercise that I come to know of Dr Lee's visit. Because if I did not know of the visit, he will stand here and say, "How's that the Minister does not know. That was a failing in the system." Sir, everything that happens in a Government department, as Ministers, we have a responsibility to know as much as possible. We do not know and we cannot pretend to know every detail of it. But the fact that Dr Lee bothered to show his concern for the welfare of the residents in the home, it was reported to me. There is nothing wrong with that. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time." 

    Dr Lee (NCMP) has mentioned that caning was introduced for vandalism; I think we have done it for locals. We have seen the results of the very little vandalism that is taking place in our public places and I think we have shown that it is not just caning that is instituted for locals but that it is instituted as the need arises. My concern really is: will this mandatory caning be a precedent that is to be set for subsequent legislation? Do we see this particular avenue taken for future offences committed by our citizens? 

 Why not in that case abolish the penalties and let them in, rather than just have half-hearted penalties? An act is either a crime or it is not a crime. If it is a crime, it must be punished, and the punishment must be effective and be a deterrent. If it is not a crime, we should encourage people to do it, and maybe even pay people to do it. I give credit to Mr Chiam for one thing though - he conceded what even some of the other Backbenchers did not, which is, that caning will work. That is realistic. Of course, it will work. What are the options? It is a crime, he is an illegal immigrant. Hundreds come in; at times, thousands. Our jails were literally overflowing. You have a choice. You can let them in and close a blind eye, which some countries do, and after a certain number of years you declare an amnesty, and then they all become citizens. Canada does this regularly. You read about their experience. The more amnesties they have, the more illegal immigrants come in, because they know for sure they will never get caned, they will just get citizenship in good time. I have not heard anybody suggest that. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I want to thank the Members who have spoken up in support of the Bill, despite 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, this is exactly what I say. For those who are already here - overstaying, breaking our law - my advice to them is surrender now to the authority, you will be dealt with under the current law. And the current law says that for those who overstay for less than 90 days, in fact they will not be sent to jail, a fine can be imposed. Jail sentence is not mandatory and they can be dealt with appropriately. That is already in the existing law. It is only if they overstay 90 days that under the current law it is mandatory jailing of six months up to a term of maximum two years. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, if they surrender themselves now, they will be dealt with under the current provisions. Let me draw the Member's attention to section 15(3)(a) of the Immigration Act which is not being amended, Sir. It says: 

    Sir, next I come to the NCMP, hoiyung: Explanation, Sir. It was not a social problem. It was a political problem. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, that is a matter of opinion. I think it is a social problem to have people defacing public property, damaging public property, even stealing insulating oil from electrical substations. The main thing is that we look for a remedy that is effective. Caning is effective. Let us apply it to deter the would-be offenders. 

    He makes a very impassionate plea for all these innocent people who are trapped in this illegal immigration offence which my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, has amply disposed of. Let me just point out that they are not innocent offenders of our immigration law. If, as Dr Lee has said, they paid a great deal of money to acquire forged documents, how 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think it would be an over-simplification just to say that they had no choice. All Singaporean employers have a choice, as the Minister for Labour has said. In fact, some of those who have been caught employing illegal workers are in sectors which have been given work permits liberally. 

    Earlier on the Non-Constituency MP, Dr Lee, brought up acts of vandalism. Prior to 1966 vandalism was very much on the rise causing a great deal of public money to be spent on cleaning up after the vandals and repairing the damage caused by them. In 1966 mandatory caning with three strokes for persons convicted under the Vandalism Act was introduced. There was a significant reduction in acts of vandalism after caning was introduced. Dr Lee testified to that earlier. As a result, Sir, Singaporeans today are able to enjoy a clean garden city environment despite having 86% of the population living in congested high-rise public housing estates. This would not have been possible if we had not taken a tough stand against vandals. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I give no such undertaking. The gazetting of the Bill and the bringing into operation of the powers contained in this Amendment will be dealt with under the normal procedures. The Bill will have to be sent to the Presidential Council for Minority Rights and it would then have to go to the President for the President's Assent before 

    The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill. - [Dr Lee Boon Yang]. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Housing and Development Board differentiates the various flat types for sale into 3-room, 4-room, 5-room and Executive flats. This classification has become familiar to all Singaporeans and provides a good guide to applicants of the size and design of the flats they are applying to purchase. The 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is a perfectly reasonable request. If neighbourhoods or precincts that have been upgraded make the proposal to HDB, I will certainly ask HDB to consider it and, where possible, to grant the request for the neighbourhood to have their own name to add to the identity. 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Lee, I think your question is out of order. According to Standing Orders, a question shall not be asked as to whether statements in the press are accurate. Do you have any further questions? 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang)(for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, the implementation of the second Neighbourhood Police Post (NPP) along Pasir Panjang Road has been delayed as the redevelopment plans for the area have not been finalised. However, the Police plans to set up a temporary NPP by the end of this year. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Construction Brigade (CB) Scheme was introduced in December 1981 with the objective of building up a regular pool of National Servicemen who are trained in the various construction trades to meet Civil Defence needs in the event of an emergency. It was revised in December 1985 to improve the standard of discipline 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I direct you to ask your questions? 

    The quota system is not fair because it is upfront. Sir, the purchase of vehicles is also something that buyers pay upfront. I would expect that in due course finance houses will work out their own scheme where some financing will take place. I want to point out that Mr Chiam, in the last debate, did specifically say that he was very much against the idea of financing and that it should be loaded upfront to make it more difficult for people to own cars. So we have different points of views. 

    Mr Chiam has asked whether we have looked at all remedies. Sir, Mr Chiam spent five months on the question of land transport. He knows the possible remedies. We have looked at all possible remedies. We have looked at them in great detail. There are no more convenient, useful, practical, effective measures that we can apply. We have exploited the Area Licensing Scheme to its fullest. We have managed to protect the central business district from severe congestions in the mornings and in the evenings. But that is really the limit, because to go further, we would have to introduce a full-day ALS. 

    Mr Chiam asked whether a quota, if not fully used in one quarter, will be carried over. Yes, it will be carried over into the next quarter. 

    20% open category - is it unfair to the motorcycles and the small cars? Again, the same argument comes forth. For motorcycles, we have already made a special case for them where the premium that they are required to pay will be kept at one-third. Small cars, as Mr Chiam rightly pointed out, occupy the same road space. For the time being, let us keep it as it is and let the system work itself through. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, will you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, may I direct you to ask your questions. It is not possible to make speeches. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can I direct you to ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, if you do not proceed to ask your question, I have to direct you to resume your seat. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, do you have any more questions? 

  hoiyung: I want to ask two simple questions. Can the Minister allow the payment of the licence fee to be spread out over a 10-year period, instead of a one-time payment? The other question is about vintage cars. I sympathise with Mr Chiam because I do own a 22-year old car and, like him, I also have to pay. But I can assure the Minister that these cars that we own are not that bad and we are prepared to give him a ride. 

    Dr Lee suggested extending PARF to 15 years. Sir, he has obviously not listened to the figures that I have quoted earlier on, to show that vehicles over 10 years do have very serious problems and therefore we should discourage rather than encourage their rapid growth. To give PARF for 15 years means that we encourage more and more old vehicles on our roads. And when a vehicle breaks down, other road users pay for it by way of increased wastage of time. All road users will have to spend another half an hour, 40 minute, 50 minutes, stuck behind that vehicle particularly if it broke down during peak hours and at a critical junction. So a cost has to be borne by people who have got nothing to do with the owner of the old vehicle. While it is obviously advantageous to the owner to keep an old vehicle, it is disadvantageous to all the others. The same argument applies also to giving a grace period for 15 years. Yes, we can be a lot more generous to existing owners, but it will be at the expense of prospective owners of vehicles. 

 system all these years with the road tax and the ARF. The Government determines the ARF and the road tax and all the other levies that need to be made, and leaves it open to people to buy vehicles. It has been pointed out by the Select Committee that the quota system is more effective, more predictable than the old system. Dr Lee comes back to the question of need. We discussed that the last time. Need is very subjective. Everybody needs a vehicle if it is within his means to own one. We are aware of it. But as Mr Chiam pointed out, it is not possible to have everybody owning a car or a vehicle. So who is to assess whose need is greater? Let the individuals decide. Individuals have the choice to decide whether they prefer to spend their money on a vehicle or they prefer to take a bus and spend their money in some other way. 

    Sir, hoiyung: Sir, I rise to oppose the amendment proposed by Dr Lee, since he has given me the honourable mention in his speech. 

    There are two aspects of his speech which require mention. The first is that the PAP Government, he says, has gone back on its promise of an equal and just society. Sir, let us start by asking what is meant by an "equal and just society". In Dr Lee's philosophy, as expounded by the now defunct Barisan Sosialis, "equal and just society" means that everyone is rewarded equally regardless of merit and regardless of their contribution. We have seen the application of that principle in the USSR, Eastern Europe, China. The result? Former Communists who advocated that creed in Singapore and fought for that are now applying to be allowed to leave their Communist safe haven and come and live in Singapore. That is the complete answer. 

    I have no doubt at all that the PAP Government will be happy to compare and match its record against any country, and I repeat, any country, that Dr Lee might care to give as an example which has 

 practised the ideology that he preaches in this House. He talks about home ownership in Singapore. Compare Singapore's home ownership rate with any self-styled socialist or communist country. It is the reality, not words, which count. Dr Lee has been on Government trips to both Russia and China. He should know. 

    His second point is on proportional representation. Sir, at the commencement of my speech, I commented on governments which cannot look beyond the next general elections, or even the next parliamentary sitting. Sir, proportional representation equals chaos. The purest form of proportional representation is found in Israel. Dr Lee will no doubt recall that Israel has not been able to hold a majority government since the last elections. The Labour and Likud parties had been forced to form a coalition. When that broke down, both had to engage in unseemly horse-trading with extremist minority parties. The horse-trading was so bad that in the days after the coalition fell, over a hundred thousand Israelis marched through the streets of Tel Aviv demanding a change in the system. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Public Works Department has found the general traffic condition along South Buona Vista Road and Dover Road satisfactory. There is no immediate need to redevelop the roads. The Public Works Department will continue to monitor the traffic situation and developments in the area. 

    As to the final question, I am not quite sure I understood what Dr Lee meant. Is he asking whether I train my staff personally? 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Mr Chairman, Sir, first, I would like to thank Dr Arthur Beng, Chairman of the GPC for Home Affairs and Law, and the other Members who have spoken in support of this integration of the Singapore Civil Defence Force and the Singapore Fire Service. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, as part of the integration, my Ministry is looking into setting up a combined training school. The location for this training school will be at the Jalan Bahar Civil Defence Camp. It will be a training school for both Fire officers and Civil Defence officers. It will provide both skills training and also management and command training for all the officers. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Chairman, Sir, I thank the Member for Tiong Bahru GRC for raising this issue of cult groups appearing in Singapore. My Ministry is concerned with the appearance of such groups. But just so that we are not misunderstood, I think we should put what the Member for Tiong Bahru GRC has referred to as "cult groups" in context. I take it that by "cult groups" he means the groups that are outside the mainstream religious activities, and these are the groups whose activities can lead to social disorder, religious discord and some activities are outright unlawful. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: At the present moment I think the powers available to the Ministry are sufficient to deal with the situation. But, of course, we will monitor the situation closely. If it looks as if additional powers or more effective deterrents are necessary, then we will not hesitate to introduce these deterrent measures. 

    Then he says the Special Branch fabricates, imaginary grounds. How can this be? If this is so, then let us ask ourselves: could ISD, or the Special Branch as it was known before, have demolished the CPM network in Singapore if there were no such CPM elements? Scores of them had to be arrested, rehabilitated and dealt with. And he says we are all sitting here peacefully. It is because of the ISA and an effective ISD that we are able to have the peace, security and stability that we experience today. And enables him to be invited here as an NCMP. How could an ISD which fabricates matters have destroyed the main forces of the CPM which at one time numbered more than 10,000 and reduced it to about 1,000 operating in the Malaysian/Thai border? And it is because of the effectiveness of measures taken by intelligence and security agencies in Malaysia and Singapore that we now read reports recently in the press that these remnants are negotiating a surrender. 

    Sir, I need not dwell on the other points raised by hoiyung: Dr Lee, we have reached the Moment of Interruption. 

    Mr Choo Wee Khiang has talked about the need for compassion. He mentioned that our doctors are very competent, but the doctors and nurses lack compassion. I think that is a very general statement. I am not too sure whether our five doctors, including the NCMP, in the Chamber will 

    Mr Chiam made another point, ie, that the question of affordability is very subjective. Sir, the question of affordability can- 

  hoiyung: Yes, Dr Lee. 

    Mr Chiam asked about nurses. What are we going to do to solve the shortage? Sir, I thought I have been explaining that all along just now. Do you want me to repeat the answer? [Interruptions]. We will ensure that we are competitive, and we will try to recruit more, as we have done. I thought I saw Mr Choo writing down the figures just now. Do you have the figures? Maybe he can tell Mr Chiam afterwards. 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, if Mr Chiam would like to help us recruit, we will of course be very grateful for his assistance. Are you going to, Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Sir, Dr Lee again has not waken up. He is still saying that people should be forced to go to C class. He asked whether people like to go to A, B1 and B2 because they like to pay more. Sir, on that he is right. People do not like to pay more than they can get away with. That is human nature. But Singaporeans have a choice of what service they want and how much they pay for that service. It is just like the difference between a taxi and a bus. Every Singaporean has a choice between a bus and a taxi. He wants a taxi, he takes a taxi and he pays more. He wants to pays less, he takes a bus. They are given a choice. 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Sir, Dr Lee stresses that hospice care givers will have to provide social, moral and spiritual support. I agree, and that is why this sort of support is best given by volunteers. It is also best given by members of their immediate families as well as friends. Sir, we will help the voluntary organisations in terms of training, but they must reach out to encourage more volunteers to come forward, volunteers who are fully committed to this role. The Ministry will provide the support to help them to carry out this job once they have identified those volunteers. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Dr Lee has raised this issue in last year's budget debate and again in January this year. As I explained at that time, the Singapore Allowance was last increased in 1986, and between 1986 and today the increase in basic living cost has not changed sufficiently to warrant an immediate adjustment at this time. 

    Members will recall that the Singapore Allowance was first introduced in 1974 to assist pensioners in the lower pension groups in the then abnormally high inflationary situation. Since that time the allowance has been increased three times in 1980, 1982 and 1986. I would like to assure Dr Lee that I am not unsympathetic to the problems of the lower income pensioners and that my Ministry monitors the cost of living changes regularly and would make adjustments when this is necessary. 

    However, Dr Lee should get his facts straight about cost of living data, particularly he should not just quote CPI figures and make general statements about cost increases. Whilst I agree that in some sectors of the Singapore economy costs have gone up, this has been largely confined to those establishments and goods catering to the middle and high income groups. As the Minister for Trade and Industry mentioned yesterday, Singapore has one of the lowest inflation rates in the world and the CPI for the lower expenditure groups in fact is even more stable. He has noted that bus fares have not changed since 1982 and neither have in any significant way, any rises in the basic living cost in HDB establishments. 

    I have data on price increases for some basic food items which Dr Lee may be interested in, to illustrate what I mean. Taking 10 general items of basic goods, five have increased significantly since 1980, one stable, and four have gone down in price. This is something probably he is 

  hoiyung: Sir, I suggest Dr Lee should do a little more careful marketing, because his $50 does not seem to last very long. Perhaps he needs advice on this. 

    Members of the House may like to know that the SDP was formed in 1980 and one of its objectives was to strive for the establishment of an economic union, first, with Malaysia, and eventually with the other ASEAN countries. 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng (Mountbatten): Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam is a very amusing speaker but, of course, not as amusing as hoiyung: May I make a clarification, please? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I find Mr Chiam very amusing although, as I have said, not as amusing as hoiyung: Are you making a ruling, Sir? 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: Mr Chiam calls the PAP "selfish" and wants the PAP or the Government to help him to become the Government. In fact, to me, if anybody should be disappointed at all, I think it should be me who is disappointed with the Party leadership, and not Mr Chiam. And I will tell you why, Sir. If you look at the number of Select Committees that Mr Chiam has been included on the various Bills and the trips that he had been taken out, he should not for any moment think that the Government is selfish. But, poor me, Sir, I have been left out of the Select Committees --- 

  Mr Speaker: The Member is not giving way, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: I am sorry, Sir. But I just could not take it that he calls the Party I belong to "selfish". And as I have said, I thought that I should be the one who should be more disappointed than he is. But on second thought, I do not think, for one moment, that the leadership is unfair to me because I think they are considerate in the sense that they feel that maybe I do not have the time, maybe I need all the time to make money, and that is the reason why I have not been over-involved. I am very surprised that being a very busy lawyer, Mr Chiam can spend so much time on Parliament work, although he normally comes late. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I cannot blame Mr Chiam because his Chinese standard is not high enough to understand what I have said. If he has got a certain standard in Chinese Language, he will understand what I am trying to say. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you please allow Mr Choo to finish? 

    I hope that Mr Chiam will sit down quietly and try to reflect what I have said just now. Just now, the Member for Mountbatten said something which upsets him. So I hope he will understand the true meaning of the words when I said that if the child is uneducated, it is the fault of the father. 

    He refers to my comment that each ethnic group must have its own cultural heritage. As a Chinese from a Chinese cultural background, the traditional culture and heritage of the Chinese encourages and exhorts people to love each other, to help others, to look after the old and the young, and to look after other people's old and young. So this is Chinese traditional culture and heritage for unity, for mutual help and for cooperation. I believe that in the traditions of the Indians and the Malays, you may or may not find all these kinds of cultural heritage. The people may have different cultural backgrounds or cultural heritage but they can have shared common values, shared common cultural concept and ballast. As it is said, "All routes lead to Rome". So again Mr Chiam does not seem to understand me. What kind of Singaporean does he want? What does he expect Singaporeans to do? To put all into a melting pot, to create a new Singapore culture? Can he explain? 

    But first, Sir, I would like to comment on the views of the Member for Potong Pasir on the economic union with Malaysia. It is a good idea but I just could not believe my ears when he said that there may be many Singaporeans objecting to such a union. As a matter of fact, I have to check with the Member for Yio Chu Kang to confirm what I heard. Contrary to the Member for Potong Pasir's belief that many Singaporeans would object, I think that if Mr Chiam can help Singapore achieve some form of economic union with Malaysia, he would be widely applauded and acclaimed a hero. 

    Sir, the President, besides covering the Government's plans for the immediate future, also covers the long-term direction of the Government for the next 25 years. This is mainly in the book "The Next Lap". And in this respect, Sir, it is not surprising that the Member for Potong Pasir objects to the form of the book, using the excuse of too many pictures. The book, Sir, should be read by all Singaporeans. This means that its presentation and its readability are extremely important factors to ensure maximum readership. I guess that he is not really objecting to the book itself, but really to the ability of the book to attract a wide readership. From his partisan viewpoint, I guess it is a legitimate concern but not necessarily of national concern. 

  hoiyung: You seem to be making a very long clarification, Mr Chiam. 

    On the first point, I would wish that the Member for Potong Pasir is involved in business activities like some of us here. Then he will realise that there are many obstacles and tremendous difficulties of trying to get into Malaysia to do business. Singapore is a free economy and has an open market. We will welcome any opportunity to set up various types of economic ties as well as any form of union with any country where we can get our goods and 

    Dr Lee Boon Yang 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang)(for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, the training scheme and general performance of the Construction Brigade servicemen have improved significantly. Sir, the training scheme consists of 3 phases, namely, Basic Para-military Training, Construction Trade Training and Supervised Field Training. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, most of the training of the Construction Brigade at the Jalan Bahar Civil Defence Training Centre is for para-military training. When it comes to learning about construction skills, they attend the courses conducted at the construction industry training centre which is a different training school. After the integration of the Civil Defence Force and the Fire Service, the Construction Brigade will continue to focus its attention on training a core of national servicemen who have some basic construction skills and experience in construction trade. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the section of Yishun Avenue 1 from Yishun Avenue 4 to Sembawang Road is currently under construction and is expected to be open to traffic by July 1989. 

  hoiyung: Sir, although Mr Chiam did not mention it, I think he was alluding to the sacking of some NTUC employees because they took part in the elections and stood against the PAP. The NTUC is a very special organization. In most countries, for example in UK, the labour movement, the trade unions are with the Labour Party and it is very common in these countries for the workers and unions to support a particular political party. Having supported and subscribed to the ideals of the party, they should not turn round and say, "Look. Now I want to contest against you." We must take this problem in its right context that, in this particular case, the close link between the NTUC and the PAP is well-known to everybody. If you ask any student, he will know it. The NTUC and the PAP have always been working together in struggling for independence and they have worked together to bring Singapore to what it is today. It is proper that in an organization like that which has obvious political connections, they should expect their members to follow and uphold the same ideals. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think it will be good if Mr Chiam would explain or specify the particular case he is referring to so that we will be able to answer his point. 

  hoiyung: Sir, NTUC has not sacked any of its employee who belongs to any political party and if Mr Chiam thinks so, I would like him to name one. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think Mr Chiam has got all this confused. PAP and NTUC run BEST classes jointly. NTUC does not run BEST classes by itself. George Sita, he is referring to, is a member of the SDP who stood against the PAP in the last election. He was employed jointly by NTUC and PAP. So he was an employee of PAP who stood against PAP in the last election. On that ground, PAP has all the right to remove him. 

  hoiyung: Somehow Mr Chiam refused to accept the fact that such employees are acting against the interests of the organization. 

  hoiyung: As 2DPM has explained, in the case of the SDP member who worked for BEST, he was employed by a political party, the PAP. PAP employed him. So if he has acted against the interests of the PAP, the PAP has full rights to sack him. For example, if one of Mr Chiam's workers in SDP were to stand against him, against the SDP, would he condone it? This is the point. The employer is a political party, and somebody who stands against the party is an employee; so you must sack him. There were other cases, I think, of trade union leaders who were properly elected. The members decided at proper meetings to remove them because they were acting against the interest of the trade union. 

    Sir, we have about half an hour left. So I have to deal quickly with the questions on work permits. First, the point raised by several Members, Mr Goh Choon Kang, Dr Lee and so on, that we are not giving work permits to small employers. My records show that this is not true. In fact, out of 4,800 contractors in the work permit records, 3,300 have a workforce of less than 10 workers. So we do give work permits to small contractors. Those that have been denied could be the ones that are already too dependent, maybe their entire workforce is composed foreigners. And the Ministry of National Development does insist on the ratio of one local to one foreign worker. So they might be caught by this rule. Or they might have been caught with illegal workers and blacklisted. So we have to look at the actual situation. 

    Sir, I would also like to clarify one point and I think it is a clarification that needs to be made. Dr Lee is mistaken. We do not intend, and we have stated so, to abolish the PARF or to diminish or remove the investment value of vehicles. I hope that Dr Lee checks his facts before he makes such statements in Parliament because they can be very misleading. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, the Ministers are already giving their replies and the debate is being wound up. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam raises a red herring. 

 broad cross-section of people, including the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    The NCMP did not touch on the Home Affairs amendments, but I do not think I can let it pass without any comment his complaint that we have sprung a surprise on him by tabling the Second Reading of this Bill. That is really absurd. This Bill was introduced and read the First time by the Minister for Communications and Information on 26th February. He had one whole month and he should know by now, because he has been an NCMP since the whole of 1989 and he has been through one Committee of Supply, that the procedure is such that when we are debating in the Committee of Supply, the Second and Third Readings of Bills do not take place. So the procedure has been well established that when Bills have been introduced before or during the Committee of Supply, these Bills are taken up for Second and Third Readings after the conclusion of the Committee of Supply. He should know this by now, and this is exactly what has happened. So it should not come as a surprise in any case. He had more than a month to reflect on the contents of this Bill. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am quite amazed at how Dr Lee has managed to turn what is quite a straightforward matter of providing for the Chief Statistician to have access to information for the purpose of efficiency of information collection into one that touches on political dossiers and phone tapping. I grant that there is concern that information should be safeguarded and should not fall into the 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I repeat what I said earlier. I would like the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament to substantiate what he has said and to give us facts. I will undertake to pass them on to the relevant Minister to investigate. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you are very fond of taking part in a debate after it is being wound up. I think you do not know your Standing Orders. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I do not see the relevance of your question to the Bill that is being debated. It has got nothing to do with the Statistics (Amendment) Bill. If you have a question, I suggest you submit a question for oral answer. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: I have just posed a question to the NCMP and I would like his response. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Dr Lee speaks as if we are involved in a massive invasion of privacy rights of Singaporeans. May I point out that under this Bill we are not empowering the Government to 

    If there are any items of information which Dr Lee feels uncomfortable about the Government collecting, then the matter should be raised and discussed here in Parliament, rather than making general and vague aspersions. If Dr Lee has any information whatsoever about any information which has been misused or released to somebody who is not entitled to have it, or put to some improper purpose, then I urge him again to produce the specifics of his allegation, facts and data, and I undertake to have the allegations thoroughly investigated. If any such wrongdoing is found, the culprits will be thoroughly punished according to the law. Otherwise, I request him to withdraw his allegations. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am very sorry to say that Dr Lee is totally confused. I do not think he understands what the whole Bill is all about. 

    But, Sir, we live in a real world, unlike the world that the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament lives in. In the real world there are increases in labour cost. In the real world energy cost does go up, off and on. What is important is that we ensure in companies in Singapore, including companies such as the public transport operators, there is systematic education of the workers to raise productivity year by year. If we carry out our education in 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, it appears to me that you are making a lot of clarifications 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think five Bills are quite enough for a day. We have four more Bills for debate and these four Bills will be taken tomorrow, just in case Dr Lee again says that he is not forewarned, notice is now given to him. He has more than a couple of hours. In fact, I remember the Whip putting up a notice in the Members' Room on Monday saying that we have Bills outstanding and that Members who wish to speak should inform the Whip. I believe he also must have read the same notice on Monday. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I would like to correct the statement made by the Non-Constituency Member. This money is not being spent on a political party. It is being spent on a charitable foundation which is called the PAP Community Foundation. This Foundation is registered with the Registrar of Societies and the Commissioner ofCharities and it observes the rules governing charitable organisations. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, are you asking a question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do you have a supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do you have a supplementary question? 

  Mr Speaker: Neither do I. Mr Chiam, your next Question. 

    Secondly, the Bill makes amendments to the provisions concerning Non-Constituency MPs (NCMPs). Thirdly, the Bill amends the provisions relating to the maximum amount of election expenses which can be incurred by a candidate in an election or his election agent. 

    The second category is NCMPs. In 1984, the Constitution was amended to provide for a maximum of six Non-Constituency MPs. Section 52 of the Parliamentary Elections Act currently fixes the maximum number of NCMPs at three, that is to say, three less the total number of Opposition Members who are elected under our first-past-the-post system. 

    Sir, during the debate in the Committee of Supply earlier this year, the NCMP, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to support the amendments. 

NCMPs

    Sir, in 1984, the Constitution was amended to provide for a maximum of six NCMPs. Section 52 of the Parliamentary Elections Act currently fixes that maximum number of NCMPs at three, that is, three less the total number of Opposition Members elected under the first-past-the-post system. The Prime Minister has said that he intends to have at least four to six after the next general election. The present amendment before us proposes to enable the President to increase the number of NCMPs through an Order made between the time of dissolution of Parliament and nomination day. Each order will lapse at the next dissolution of Parliament. 

    Sir, I would like to seek clarification as to what are the guiding principles for fixing this number. I agree that for the number to be set between the dissolution of Parliament and nomination day is an appropriate time and is fair play. However, I believe that there must be some set criteria by which the number is fixed. If it is the intention to err on the side of caution, then we should at this time categorically state this to be the reason. Alternatively, the number could be increased by one NCMP per general election over the subsequent general elections till the maximum number of six is reached, and then review the success or otherwise or relevancy of the NCMP system at that time. 

    (i) for more NCMPs if the PAP so wishes; 

    First, on the increase in the number of NCMPs. In 1984, amending the Constitution and the Parliamentary Elections Act, the Senior Minister, then Prime Minister, had assured the House that there would be at least three Opposition Members of Parliament, and that the number of NCMPs could be increased to six. Though only two Opposition MPs were elected in 1984, the Government nevertheless did not increase the number of Opposition Members to "at least three", as the then Prime Minister had categorically assured the House. This really came as no surprise, as the PAP could rarely be depended on to keep its word on important issues. 

    This time, the Bill is to enable the President to vary the number of NCMPs from four, as explained by the Minister, to at most six. Excepting for the possibility of the President being able to vary the number of NCMPs, there is practically no difference between the position following the present amendment and the original position before the amendment. Of course, as Mr Chiam has emphasised, there may be no further occasion for NCMPs in future. If there should be occasion for NCMPs again in the next elections, we shall then have to see how the PAP lives up to its word this time. 

    However, the question again arises. Why does the PAP institute the system of NCMPs, and incidentally also NMPs? 

    NCMPs were introduced following Mr J.B. Jeyaretnam's victory in the Anson by-election in 1981 and the subsequent feverish attack unleashed by the PAP 

 against the then lone Opposition MP. When the attack against the lone MP brought in its trail adverse publicity for the PAP, and it was severely criticised for its intolerance to fair and legitimate criticism, the PAP came outwith the answer of the NCMP. It was clearly an attempt to assuage and appease popular discontent, and an attempt to show that the PAP was not intolerant to opposition and criticism; that it would indeed like to have an Opposition in Parliament; and that it was even willing and ready to initiate the NCMP system to give the Opposition an opportunity to have its own representatives to ventilate its viewpoints in Parliament. But there are also criticisms against the NCMP system. Some people have called the NCMP a second-class MP, and I do not blame them for saying so. 

 can benefit from such dirty money politics. Hitherto, the present maximum amount of $6,000 allowed per candidate has worked quite well. Mr Chiam has told us of his experience. Similarly, I can say that in the Barisan Sosialis in the old days, and in the Workers' Party today, we do not spend even half the amount that is legally allowed. 

    And with the Bill, the PAP has now introduced that into Singapore. All because it has lost confidence in being able to gain the people's support in its rule over Singapore. But that will not stop the downward trend of popular support for the PAP, as mentioned by Mr Chiam, and as already evident since the 1981 Anson by-election, and especially seen over the last two elections in 1984 and 1988. Nor will it be able to stop the upward trend of popular support for 

   Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, in replying to the points which have been raised, first, let me take the points which have been made by Members on the question of NCMPs. Dr Arthur Beng asked about the criteria and whether we can fix it at a particular formula. Mr Chiam, of course, consistent with his Party's position on the question of NCMPs, is opposed to the very idea of NCMPs. And hoiyung: Sir, I believe the Minister wants an explanation of the meaning of "money politics". I think money politics can best be seen in America where they have to spend vast amounts to win an election campaign. How do they do it and why do they 

 convincing to hoiyungasked for more NCMPs. Let me quote what he said on 29th November 1989 [Hansard, Vol. 54, No. 8, col. 752]: 

    'Presently, we have one elected MP and one, or if you like, two NCMPs. So we have room for another three or four NCMPs. Therefore it would be logical to have more NCMPs as a first step.' 

    'If the Government feels that there should be more Opposition MPs, all it has got to do is to increase the number of NCMPs, to make up the total number of Opposition MPs to six.' 

    On the question of election expenses, I agree with Mr Chiam that we should not go the way of the United States. But this amendment that we are making is to increase the 1954 figure to $1, and I do not see how it can make us go the way of the United States. 

   hoiyungasked for an increase from three to six. But I did not ask for more NCMPs per se. 

    As to his earlier point about not offering to the next person on the list, for the record, let me remind him that in 1984 when the Workers' Party's representative turned down the NCMP offer, the offer was made to the next person on the list, Mr Tan Chee Kien of the SUF. 

   hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam has, as usual, wielded a very poorly guided and indiscriminate brush to paint a dark and distorted picture of the position of a reservist who has to perform in-camp training in the SAF. He has misrepresented the SAF as an unreasonable and inflexible organisation. Sir, this could not be further from the truth and, in the course of the next few minutes, I will set the record straight. 

    First, let me address the specific example that Mr Chiam has brought up of the student who was sitting for his external law examination, appealing to be deferred from in-camp training because it coincided with a local intermediate examination. I think Mr Chiam forgot to inform this House that the local examination was, in fact, a mock examination conducted by a local private law school to prepare their students for the formal examination. Being a mock examination, it could always be re-scheduled or could always be re-arranged in some way to accommodate the student's in-camp training. Nonetheless, after appeal by the hon. Member of Parliament who represented this student, and the hon. Member is not Mr Chiam, MINDEF had decided, in this particular case, notwithstanding the fact that it was only a mock examination, to allow him time-off to take the examination. So this is, in fact, a case in point showing that MINDEF does consider each case on its own merits. 

 their families. Sir, it is simply not possible to have a national service defence force without causing some degree of inconvenience to Singaporeans. In the case of reservist duty, it is essential to carry out periodic training, such as in-camp training, to maintain a high level of operational readiness, which Mr Chiam seems not to agree, even if such training results in some disruption to the civilian life. If reserve service is not carried out thoroughly and effectively, then I have no doubt that SAF's ability to defend Singapore will certainly suffer. 

    Mr Chiam's point is: why not allow the part-time students deferment from reservist duty? Does Mr Chiam know, for example, that there are 100,000 part-time students in VITB alone? And if all part-time students are eligible for deferment from reservist duty, then how can SAF maintain a credible defence capability. 

    Sir, on the other hand, while we want to maintain the operational readiness of the SAF through a serious programme of part-time in-camp training, MINDEF also understands the compelling desires of Singaporeans to upgrade themselves throughfurther education, whether it is full-time or part-time basis. MINDEF supports such aspiration. In fact, MINDEF, as an employer, regularly sends its own officers for part-time and full-time courses. And where reservists are concerned, unlike what Mr Chiam has said, MINDEF does allow deferment from in-camp training for part-time students. However, a balance has to be struck when allowing such deferment. We have to ensure that allowing time-off from in-camp training for studies for part-time students will not jeopardize the training needs of the reserve unit. 

    Reservists who are attending full-time course, as Mr Chiam himself knows well, are allowed deferment or even disruption if their course exceeds one year. Reservists who are attending part-time courses can be granted deferment from in-camp training to prepare and to sit for these examinations, provided the exam- 

    I hope, Sir, that Mr Chiam and those who have encountered difficulties in securing deferment will now understand that MINDEF is indeed sympathetic to their appeals. However, to maintain an alert, effective and credible SAF, reservists must take in-camp training seriously. So while we are sympathetic and we will do what we can to make reservist service more convenient and less disruptive, not all appeals for deferment can be granted. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your question? 

    Thirdly, Sir, we can abolish the ISA only when the security situation in Malaysia has enabled them to abolish their ISA. The internal security of Singapore and Malaysia are closely interlinked. Mr Lee Kuan Yew stated this way back in October 1958, more than 30 years ago, in the run-up to the May 1959 elections and before he became Prime Minister. He made this an election issue and the PAP won the elections. He reiterated this most recently in May last year before the September 1988 general elections. This inter-relatedness endures because both countries face common security problems - communism and communalism. Although the threat posed by the communists has receded, the problems posed by the communalists have not. Any instability and turmoil in Malaysia will affect Singapore and vice versa. The hon. Member for Potong Pasir could not have forgotten May 13, 1969, when racial riots in Kuala Lumpur spilled over to Singapore. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, please ask your question. 

    The first step towards this accommodation was the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament scheme.... Such non-government MPs can question Government policies and argue for alternative courses of action. The Government will review the NCMP scheme and 

    We could also have a second round election for opposition MPs if opposition parties fail to secure a minimum number of seats in a general election. This could be an alternative to the NCMP scheme. 

    All six Nominated MPs need not be appointed at the same time. Their appointments can be staggered. The term for each Nominated MP is two years unless before then Parliament is dissolved or he resigns or his seat becomes vacant in accordance with Article 46 of the Constitution. A Nominated MP can be re-appointed after the expiry of his term. He can also stand for any election to Parliament. But if he is elected, his seat will become vacant, ie, he cannot be a Nominated Member and an elected Member at the same time. This will also apply to a Non-Constituency Member. 

    A Nominated MP will have the same voting rights in Parliament as a Non-Constituency Member, ie, he can vote on all Bills and motions, except money and Constitutional Bills, and motions of no confidence in the Government. He is, however, free to participate in the debate on such Bills and motions. 

    Neither the PAP nor Opposition MPs (nor NCMPs who are also partisan) can adequately represent the views of these people. Not necessarily from lack of ability, but because they hold a different set of convictions. Nominated MPs can make our political process more representative and policy debate more thorough by reflecting such strands of opinion. 

    (2) the Opposition, whether directly elected or NCMPs, representing the anti-establishment voters; and 

    For the next election, if we decide to increase the number of NCMPs to six, ie, from three to six, there will be at least 12 non-government MPs. This is 15% of the number of Government MPs, a good balance. Such a Parliament will be more broad-based than the present Parliament. 

    For many years, from 1966 to 1981, the people were happy with the total dominance of the PAP in Parliament. But they have shown in recent years that they want alternatives to the Government views to be aired, whilst wanting the PAP to continue as the Government. We must take cognizance of this. The PAP has no desire to shut out sensible, constructive criticism, or prevent alternative and dissenting views from being expressed in Parliament. Parliament is the supreme law-making body in Singapore. Since the normal electoral process does not result in such views from being represented, we take steps to ensure that they are represented. We have already introduced the NCMP scheme to ensure that there will always be some Opposition Members in Parliament. The Nominated MP scheme is an extension of the NCMP scheme. It broadens our political system and makes for a better Parliament. 

    It can be argued, of course, that NCMPs, and indeed opposition MPs can fill the role. But as the First DPM pointed out just now, opposition MPs by virtue of their positions are constrained to be anti-government, anti-establishment, for it is their prime responsibility to bring down the Government so that they can be the Government themselves. But what we look forward in this House is a situation where we can have constructive and alternative opinions which will then enable the Government to go along and arrive at a consensus in terms of policy implementation. 

    Perhaps at this stage I can make a suggestion that instead of defining the number of Nominated MPs to be six, we could conceivably consider whether it is possible to follow the same system as the NCMPs, in the sense that if there are more 

  Mr Abdullah Tarmugi (Siglap): Mr Speaker, Sir, our parliamentary system has an established tradition and appears to be working well for us all these years. People who fill this House are elected by the respective constituencies. Even NCMPs, although not elected into this Parliament, can claim to some support for them in the general elections. 

    Then, Sir, there are real problems in the implementation of this scheme. Whose or what sectors of interests will be picked to be represented in this House? On what grounds are these interests to be chosen and why not others? What about the nomination process itself? As the Bill now stands, it needs only a handful of people to put up nominations for the MP-ship. Their mandate therefore to Parliament is a small one, maybe even smaller than the NCMPs which we have in this House, unless the person so nominated is of such stature that thousands would be willing to nominate him for candidateship. But mostly, Sir, will we not be inundated with nominations which are frivolous or nominations 

    However, how should one distinguish between MPs, NCMPs, and Nominated MPs? Should they have the right to vote? Giving them the right to vote would mean that they have real influence in Parliament. They do make a difference even if they are in the minority. The problem is they have real influence without having gone to the people for a mandate. But if we regard them as a stabilising force and their number is limited, perhaps we can accept it. I would be happier, however, if we can have more discussion on this before we come to a conclusion. And depending on our final conclusion, we may even rename Nominated MPs and call them Parliamentary Councillors. 

  Dr Wong Kwei Cheong (Cairnhill): Mr Speaker, Sir, I speak in support of this Bill to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore to provide for the appointment of a maximum number of six Nominated Members of Parliament. As stipulated in the amendment Bill, such appointed Members of Parliament shall serve for a term of two years commencing on the date of their appointment, and shall have the same voting rights in Parliament as a Non-Constituency Member. 

    Since 1972, this problem has remained unresolved. In the General Elections of 1976 and 1980, the PAP won all the 69 and 75 parliamentary seats respectively. In the 1984 General Elections, the opposition parties, the SDP and the WP, each won one out of the 79 parliamentary seats. In the 1988 General Elections, the SDP won one of the 81 parliamentary seats; the WP lost all their contested seats and decided to accept a Non-Constituency MP seat. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, our country is unique. We are small and yet successful. We have come a long way in the last 25 years. Singaporeans today are better educated and have become more politically conscious. They want to have a greater say on matters that affect their lives. They want more voices in Parliament to convey their aspirations and views. To satisfy this trend, various innovative measures have been introduced in the past. We introduced the NCMP scheme in 1984 and the GRC scheme in 1988. We are now in the midst of a debate on yet another scheme, the NMP scheme. 

    (1) increasing the number of Non-Constituency MPs (NCMPS); 

 is their desire? Is their desire simply to elect a Member of Parliament like Mr Chiam, and another like hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, this is a Bill which deals with the fundamentals of parliamentary democracy. Our system of parliamentary democracy has served us well and brought us peace, progress and prosperity for the last 25 years. Admittedly, as in all things, it is not perfect. However, a very radical and fundamental change is being proposed in this Bill. A Member of Parliament will be nominated and he will not be elected by the people. The First Deputy Prime Minister has circulated a list of 20 countries where there are nominated Members. I am not sure whether we want to belong to this list of 20 countries. 

    Sir, in the past, when amendments were made to the electoral process, there were good reasons for it. For example, the Non-Constituency MP Bill provided for a system of checks and balances. The GRC Bill provided for minority representation. However, in both these Bills, the process of election through the one-man-one-vote system remained intact. There were some Members of the House who had some reservations on the NCMP Bill. However, the NCMP has credibility as he went through, the electoral process. Some called the NCMP a "back-door" or "second-class" MP. This label should rightfully now be transferred to the NMP as he does not have the mandate of the people to speak and he has no accountability to the electorate. They are more akin to "illegal immigrants" in Parliament than a "back-door" or "second-class" MP. The NMP is very different and not an extension of the NCMP scheme. I beg to differ from the First Deputy Prime Minister. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the vacant State land at the junction of Munshi Abdullah Avenue and Old Yio Chu Kang Road is zoned and approved for further housing development. There are no plans at present to develop the site. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: I will ask my Ministry's planners to look into the provision of parks in the area. If there is insufficient parkland and if the development schedule on the vacant land is such that a temporary park can be provided, we can look into it. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the development of the Bukit Batok Town Centre started in late 1984. To-date, the following facilities have been completed: 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I have noted in the main answer itself, development of the Town Centre already started in 1984 at the same time as the blocks were completed. In fact, most of the facilities for the Town Centre have already been completed. For the rest of the facilities - the completion of the Phase II of the Bukit Batok Bus Interchange and the Area Office - work will be in progress soon and we expect to have these completed by the end of 1990. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, 500 lifts in HDB estates throughout the island were installed with urine detectors under a pilot project in January 1988. A recent survey shows that since then the number of HDB lifts affected by the urine problem has dropped by 25%. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, in mid-1987, HDB converted the ground floor at Block 104, Commonwealth Crescent, into a void deck when all the ground floor rental units became vacant. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, although there is an absence of void decks, it does not mean that there is a total absence of communal space for various activities to be held. In fact, I have been informed by HDB that communal gatherings are often held at the turf area between the blocks. 

    Sir, let me now deal with the subject of restructuring which is the concern of many Members who have spoken. Restructuring has been supported, I think, by all, except one, and that is the NCMP. 

    Sir, the NCMP yesterday claimed that the fee increases over the years have deprived poor Singaporeans of hospital care, and that the Government is shirking its duty to look after the medical needs of the poor. Singaporeans, and the NCMP himself, know that hospital services have been vastly improved over the last 20 years. We have today a hospital service that is the envy of many, including those in the developed countries. And it is available to all Singaporeans, regardless of his social status or his income level. This would not be so if the Government had shirked its duty. 

    Sir, let me move on to some of the other points raised by the other speakers. The NCMP made some very strong remarks. He accused the Government of playing a dirty trick on Singaporeans. He said that in SGH what we have done is to convert C class wards into B2 and call them B2. That means giving them the same C class facilities but charge them more by just a neat trick of changing the name. Sir, I guess the NCMP has not been to SGH since it was opened. If he had, he would have seen that the B2 beds in GH are highly superior to any B2 beds that we have in the other hospitals, NUH included. That is why our B2 wards in GH are so heavily utilized that we have in fact, unfortunately, turned away patients or delayed the operations until beds are available. Singaporeans are 

 no fools, despite what the NCMP would like them to believe. They know whether they are getting value for money. If those are C class beds at such a much higher cost, those beds would be empty today. They will all be using the C class beds in the other hospitals. 

    The NCMP accuses us of profiteering. He gave the example of Hepatitis B vaccinations. Sir, the Hepatitis B vaccincations in the Government hospitals and clinics are far cheaper than any that can be obtained elsewhere in Singapore and the reason is because we are able to use our purchasing power to tender for the vaccines and obtain extremely low prices. All these savings are passed on to our patients. Unfortunately, because we tender, it also means we are locked in to a price for a certain time. We started off offering Hepatitis B vaccinations, for example, for newborns at $45 and in June 1988, because we had used up the old stocks we were able to obtain new stocks at a lower price, we have reduced the vaccination price to $30, and for adults we have reduced it from $120 to $90. Sir, that is not the end of the story. I am happy to inform Members that stocks are being used up. We expect when the new tender is delivered that prices for the new supplies will further go down and we would, as we have done before, pass on the savings back to Singaporeans. Sir, we do not believe in profiteering. 

    Mr Choo Wee Khiang has made a suggestion that we should perhaps rename the B2 into C class. I find that suggestion rather strange and in fact if he had done that earlier, I think the NCMP would have jumped on it and said, "See, you do not have to ask him. They have already done in GH." Sir, there must be the clear gradations between A, B1, B2 and C. C is a basic level of care. No frills but full medical treatment. Anyone who prefers to have a little bit more luxury must be prepared to pay for that little bit of luxury and those who want to go all the way to an A class bed, they had better be prepared to pay for the full cost for the A class bed. 

    As to Hepatitis B vaccines, there is a lot of cross-subsidy going on because certain babies requiring Hepatitis B vaccination come from mothers who are already Hepatitis B carriers. Dr Lee knows that for these babies they require additional shots and that these cost more and we are not charging them. So there is some degree of cross-subsidy going on and when the new supplies are delivered we will make sure that the savings are passed on to all the patients. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, can you move the amendment? 

    As to the question from Dr Lee about whether the income from savings earning interest in banks could be tax-free, this is a completely separate issue because we do not exempt interest earnings generally and it would be a major departure. One has to be very careful in making changes of this type as it affects the whole basis for assessing tax. 

  hoiyung: I think Dr Lee would have to be more specific on the items which he has spoken. 

  hoiyung: I hope that Dr Lee is not suggesting that pensioners should be buying brand new cars. And HDB flat prices have not, in fact, changed substantially as far as I am aware. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Primary Production Department carries out regular checks to ensure that imported livestock and meat are free from harmful chemical and drug residues. The checking system involves first approving overseas farms and meat processing plants for exporting livestock and meat to Singapore. This is followed by inspections at the point of import in Singapore, using sampling methods. 

    On voting rights, the Committee decided to make no change, ie, NMPs will have the same voting rights as NCMPs. The reason was simple. The absence of voting rights would reduce the status of NMPs and discourage serious-minded persons from serving as nominated MPs. 

  hoiyung: I just want to make a point of clarification on what the Member for Potong Pasir has stated. During the debate on the Ministry of Health, it was not the time for each Member that was reduced. It was the time per topic that was reduced to four minutes. There is a lot of difference in both. 

  Mr Heng Chiang Meng (Cheng San GRC): A point of clarification, Sir. The Member for Potong Pasir just said about the constitution of England. If I remember my history correctly, I believe that England does not have a constitution. Perhaps he can show us one. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Speaker, Sir, I just want to make a clarification on Mr Chiam saying that he did not sign or initial the Report. Under the procedures, there is no need for any Member to sign the Report. It is the Chairman's Report of the Committee that is presented to Parliament. 

    I remember that at the last but one meeting when this detailed Report was discussed, Mr Chiam was not present. Neither was I, but I applied for leave. He did not apply for leave. At the last meeting when we met to confirm the Report, it was only at the conclusion of our meeting that Mr Chiam appeared at the meeting. 

  Mr Speaker: Yes, Mr Chiam, do you want to respond to Mr Heng? 

    Sir, a precedent has already been established where losers in a general election can still get into Parliament. The Non-Constituency MP scheme allows people who have been rejected by the electorate to enter Parliament as NCMPs. These NCMPs may have a high number of votes but that does not diminish the fact that the majority in the electorate had rejected them. There is no provision in the NCMP scheme that prohibits them from being appointed to political office in Government. Consequently, if we have accepted the NCMP scheme, I can see little possibility of strong moral arguments that can be put forward to object to nominated MPs holding office. I therefore support the recommendation of the Committee that the Bill should not disqualify a nominated MP from holding political office. 

    The GRC proposal and the NCMP scheme, it would be noted, got the same reception when they were first introduced. But once they were implemented, people realise how much advantages they offer in the long term. The lone NCMP in this House, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, thank you for allowing me to speak. 

    Sir, I see the NMP scheme as a political innovation. We should not treat the scheme with despise. I feel that we should give it a try. Unlike the Member for Potong Pasir and the NCMP, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thank all Members of Parliament who have spoken this afternoon. I notice that some MPs still have some reservations over certain changes to the original Bill. The points which they addressed have been debated by Members of the Select Committee and I would try to use the points in the Report to persuade those MPs who still have reservations to come on board. 

  hoiyung: All right, Dr Lee. 

  Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not quite know how to respond to Dr Lee's statement. My only conclusion must be that he is trying to hog television time. I fail to understand him. He cannot even contain himself. He was laughing. So obviously he does not really mean what he 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of National Development and Ministry of Home Affairs and Government Whip. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, building regulations require all basement car parks to have mechanical ventilation systems providing at least six air changes per hour. This is comparable to standards adopted by other countries. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Building Control Division of my Ministry is in charge of enforcing the regulations governing any violation of these rules. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, there are presently 32 conservancy con- 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, student involvement in crimes showed a decline from 266 arrests in 1986 to 217 in 1987 and 203 in 1988. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang)(for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, a pedestrian footbridge over the Rochore Canal linking the Lavender MRT Station to the Crawford Housing Estate will be built by PWD. It will be completed early next year. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, the delay in paying resettlement compensation has been caused by investigations into fraudulent claims. My Minister will be making a Ministerial Statement on this at the end of Question Time. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, adjacent to the existing bus interchange in the Serangoon Town Centre are 72 shops, 14 market-produce shops, a mini-market, one eating house and two family restaurants. 

    "to amend the Housing and Development Act (Chapter 129 of the 1985 Revised Edition)", presented by the Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Lee, I really must stress that you have to confine yourself to the matter under debate. I do not see how marriage and birth rates have got to do with the Bill. 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Lee, it appears to me that you are turning this debate into a debate on the need for national service. 

    (In Mandarin) Mr Speaker, Sir, having heard Dr Lee's speech I was rather surprised because I remember that just a few months ago when we were in this House talking about national service, total defence and the defence of our country and various other topics, Dr Lee expressed his support for national service and took a stand different from that of previous years. Today it seems that he has changed his stand again. I believe, of course, it is not his personal stand but the stand of Barisan Sosialis in the past and now that of the Workers Party. 

    I would like to explain to the House why we feel that this amendment is necessary. Having persuaded hon. Members, we ask for their support. All of us in the House must remind ourselves that in our parliamentary democracy, Parliament reigns supreme. All important policies of State should first be presented to the House, debated and a decision subsequently taken after hearing Members' views. The Ministry of Communications and Information has again made this serious omission in its announcement of its package of measure to curb car usage. It is indeed unfortunate that its press release "INTERIM RESTRAINT MEASURES FOR LAND TRANSPORT" was not first tabled for debate in Parliament. Yes, we may again be told that tax and revenue announcements must be kept secret. However, I believe that a blue paper could and should have been presented for a full debate without mention of pricing figures and dates of implementation. The Ministry could then take Members' views into consideration and act accordingly. This is parliamentary democracy. This is the expected norm in parliamentary practice. This is more important when this House has only one elected Opposition Member and one NCMP. The people of Singapore have given us, the PAP, their mandate, and we must represent their views in Parliament. 

    In view of Mr Chiam's Questions, I asked the Committee to expedite its review. The review has been completed and the Committee's Report will be in the hands of Members of Parliament before National Day. The Member for Potong Pasir (who originally asked the 

  Mr Speaker: I rule that the question is out of order, Dr Lee. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, could you ask your supplementary question? You are making a speech. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, could you ask your question? You are not permitted to make any speech. 

 mentary sitting, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first let me say once again that the Workers' Party is totally opposed to the concept of the Elected President. We believe that the Elected President is unnecessary, and that there are enough safeguards in the present parliamentary system, if only the PAP Government would let Parliament play its proper and rightful role in Government. 

    Finally, the Secretary-General of the Party has just asked me to say that the Workers' Party might be compelled to call for a boycott in protest when the time comes. 

    The third point I would like to point out is that, under the present provisions, clauses 16(5) and 23(2)(a) allow for symbols to be allotted to the candidates. In Parliamentary elections, the party symbol identifies very clearly the candidate. Many people will vote on the ballot papers, matching the candidate with the party symbol which they are already familiar with. For example, the PAP lightning or the Workers' Party hammer and so on. However, for the Presidential election, people may not be too familiar with matching the symbol with the candidate. So I am just suggesting that perhaps the Minister might consider alternatives such as having a picture of the candidate next to the name of the candidate on the ballot papers. Another alternative might be to 

  hoiyung: All right. That would be convenient. You may proceed, Dr Lee. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, hoiyung: Dr Lee, you may proceed. 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, would you like to proceed with the other group of amendments? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, let me deal with the second group of amendments. Again, I do not propose to repeat at length what I have said in my main reply. First, his amendments to clauses 23 and 25 relate to his objections to the numbering. He said that his Party has not raised this over the last several elections. But the Opposition now has to raise it because they fear this. By "Opposition" what does he mean? He cannot speak for the entire Opposition because Mr Chiam has, on record in 1979, as saying [Straits Times, 3rd February 1979]: 

    So hoiyung: Sir, the Minister has not touched on some of the issues which I have raised and his excuse is that he does not propose to repeat them. He has not repeated anything. The issues which I want him to answer, he has not answered. He brings in the excuse that Mr Chiam and Mr Jeyaretnam have both accepted the number on the ballot paper. 

    Sir, this issue is not a new issue. This issue was brought up long before Mr Jeyaretnam, or Mr Chiam, came on to the political scene. We brought it up long, long ago. Later on, we discovered to our dismay that because we brought it up, we actually did make people more frightened. And because of that, we tried to reassure the people saying that the vote was secret and that everything was all right. Nevertheless, the Minister has not answered the complaint of the 1966 Constitutional Commission. Neither has 

    Dr Lee's speech reveals nothing unusual. It is his usual tirade against the PAP. It is a political speech, but full of contradictions. If I may just point out one or two contradictions. One, he argued that the Government is turning the clock back in pre-qualifying candidates and in reducing the number of people who can be eligible to become candidates. Far from turning the clock back, he will realise that his presence in Parliament is the result of the Government turning the clock forward, because under the old system, he would not have been in Parliament. We have changed the rules so that he is in Parliament even though he was not elected. That is one contradiction in his speech. 

    Another contradiction is when he wants the PEC members to declare whether they are members of any political party. I sense that he would want the PEC to be non-political, that means, no nominations, no nominees from political parties. But as he argued that we should expand the number of PEC members from the present number to 11, the truth came out. He wanted to include the Secretary-General of the Workers' Party in it. He also wanted to put in the SDP and the PAP, but I am sure he would rather keep out those two. But that is the contradiction. He wants to depoliticize the PEC in the first place and, in the next breath, he argues for the inclusion of Secretary-Generals of political parties. I need not go into other examples. The important point is that the opposition parties have not come up with a better alternative to the system that we have. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Public Works Department will build the road divider and signalize the junction of Simei Road/Simei Street 1 by July 1989. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: I will ask the Public Works Department to look into this request. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for Home Affairs): Mr Speaker, Sir, compared to 1987, seizable offences for 1988 increased by 5,490 cases or 10.9%. Not all categories of crime showed an increase. Robberies decreased slightly from 1,681 cases in 1987 to 1,674 cases in 1988, a slight drop of 0.4%. Number of rape cases also decreased from 99 in 1987 to 96 in 1988. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: I do not have the figures of offenders who are foreigners arrested last year. Yes, there were foreigners who were arrested in Singapore for committing certain crimes but the figures are not with me at the moment. 

    Sir, the Non-Constituency Member, I think, he was afraid that the late Mr Teh 

    Sir, we have also heard the NCMP say that monetary payment is not a deterrent to people who want to be corrupt in any event. High salaries may attract good men but certainly will not prevent corruption. I think we should follow the American style and get all politicians to declare their assets and members of their families' assets before they take office. And from time to time, they can be monitored. I think that is a very good suggestion. I hope the Minister for Law will comment on that. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: The question as to whether this applies to Phey Yew Kok is obviously a legal question which the CPIB will have to take up with the Attorney-General's Chambers after this Act comes into force. But if I may say so here, Mr Chiam was wrong in thinking that the 6-year cut-off period applies to Mr Phey Yew Kok because my reading of that clause 23 is a specific reference to persons who have died. In other words, the effect of death on proceedings is a provision which applies to persons who have died. 

    On Mr Chiam's point about Ministers being required to give an undertaking, this is not a new point. It has been raised in this House before by Mr Jeyaretnam and Mr Chiam and it has been fully discussed and answered by the Prime Minister on two occasions, I recall, in March 1985 and January 1987. And as he said, the Prime Minister made it clear that every Minister has to file a declaration of his assets with him and explain the reasons because when an allegation is made the authencity or veracity of that document is the basis for the investigation. As to making the declaration public, it was also touched on by the Prime Minister who explained the problems involved as to making it public-the question of privacy and how it would make the problem of getting good men to stand as candidates even more 

 difficult. But if Mr Chiam is serious and he wants to pursue this, then by all means we can have a full debate on it. He can file a motion and we can debate the matter. But before he does so, I think he should refresh his memory on the debates which have already taken place in this House. 

  hoiyung: In much the same way as the principle has been deviated - if that is the correct use of the word - by the presence in this House of the NCMP. It is hardly true, is it, that he is the representative of the people in his constituency? That constituency has elected another Member of this House. But the NCMP is with us today, has been with us for this term, takes an active part in this discussion. And I do not recall Mr Chiam jumping up to object to what the NCMP has said and actively contributed to debates in this House. 

  hoiyung: It is this difficulty that I was addressing - the trap that we have fallen into by looking at the form and not the substance. He says that the NCMP has a measure of support. What is a measure of support? Is one vote a measure of support? Is the second highest poll a measure of support? It does not really matter. What matters is an opportunity is given for another viewpoint to be expressed and we should ask ourselves: is that opportunity good for Singapore? Is it good for our legislative process? And if the answer is yes, as it must be, then Mr Chiam has no ground to stand on. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam is right if we go by traditional notions. I think they are English notions of accountability to one's constituents. What I was trying to persuade this House to accept is that accountability has a larger definition. When you come up here, as I do, to express a viewpoint, you are responsible for what you say. You are responsible to yourself and you are responsible to everybody who is affected by what you say. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, how many more clarifications do you wish to make? It appears to me that you seem to have a problem understanding Mr Singh. 

    Why do we need non-elected Nominated Members of Parliament when there are already elected ones and non-elected Non-Constituency ones (the NCMPs)? I 

    More recently, we have had the pleasure of the presence of the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament. I am sure Parliament, as a house of representatives and as a legislative body, was not diminished by the presence of the non-elected Non-Constituency Member. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I dare say the man who is responsible for the predominance of the PAP in the political system today in Singapore is, by a strange twist of events, sitting here in Parliament - thanks to the PAP's new leaders' political innovation. He is the hon. Non-Constituency Member himself. For pulling the Opposition out of Parliament, the PAP has a lot to thank him. For that, the Singapore electorate never forgave him. 

    Since the PAP Government has the burden of predominance thrust on it, caused by the grand strategic error of the Opposition under Dr Lee, it is the duty of the PAP to find new political institutions and innovations to ensure that alternative views are ventilated and heard, and due weight given to them in the consideration of policies. Otherwise, the new PAP leaders will unwittingly play into Dr Lee's original hand - to let the struggle be driven out of Parliament and into the streets. This will happen if no avenues are found to give more participation and expression at the highest level, in the absence of a credible Opposition. 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Lee. 

12    Opposition Members, the balance can then be made up of NCMPs or NMPs in that order. In other words, first, the NCMPs and then the nominated Members. If the elected Opposition Members exceed 12, then there shall be no non-elected Members of Parliament. 

    We have gone to great lengths to re-shape our political system so that through GRCs, we can always preserve minority representation in Parliament. We have put in a lot of time, energy and effort to create the possibility of NCMPs to be in Parliament so that they together with elected Opposition MPs can hopefully offer a genuine and meaningful opposition who can come up with better solutions to problems than those offered by the ruling Party. These efforts require amendments to be made to the Constitution, and they have been made for the purpose of ensuring that the long-term interests of our people are safeguarded. 

    I think in the future, it is to our interest that we have to ensure sufficient flexibility in our political system to allow for a new channel of creative ideas and constructive criticisms in order that all important issues before Parliament receive rounded treatment. Not all of us are familiar at all times with many of the complex issues before us, and ideas and visions from nominated MPs will be useful for new insights on a given issue. Our political process will then be able to take into account the expression of diverse interests that represent the broad-based wishes of our people for more than what can adequately be catered for from our existing system of elected MPs and NCMPs. It is a workable method to encourage a higher aggregation of interests by our people in the future of our country through better structured, better focused and constructive debate in Parliament. This will also help us, the elected MPs in Parliament, to weigh all possible courses of Government action, thus increasing the chance of reaching a wise decision. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you asked a question. I think you have to wait for the answer. 

  hoiyung: But I would like to remind him that sound democracy is founded on the principle that democracy is government of the people, by the people, and for the people. So the existence in whatever numbers, elected, or like my friend, Dr Lee, the Non-Constituency MP, does not come into question. It is up to the people of Singapore to decide who they want in Parliament. And if he is the only one in Parliament representing the Opposition, I make no apologies about it. It is not the ruling Party's choice; it is the people's choice. 

  Dr John Chen Seow Phun: Sir, where does the NCMP get his mandate to speak in this House? 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: He has answered the question perfectly. The NCMP has got the mandate because he has gone through the electoral process. Thank you, Mr Speaker, Sir. 

    I have faith in the Singaporean voters. They are not easily misled. They know what is good for them. They only do not wish to be taken for granted. With the PAP keeping faith with them all the time, it will remain dominant in Parliament. But please provide a voice to keep Government in check with Non-Constituency Members of Parliament and nominated MPs. As the example of hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, let me state at the outset that I do not like the Bill, but I can live with it. The imposition of the Party Whip is not something that Backbenchers like but I believe it is a small price to pay for political stability. Members who are new to this House might want to study the history of why the Party has imposed discipline over the years, because there was a time where MPs crossed the floor and created instability in Singapore. In fact, the Government nearly lost out in this House. 

    Sir, having nominated MPs in a unicameral legislature is nothing new, as the First Deputy Prime Minister has pointed out. Persons who have distinguished themselves can be nominated. The Member for Potong Pasir objects to 

    Sir, there are some MPs who imply that nominated MPs have no right to be in Parliament. That is ridiculous! MPs are MPs no matter how they have come into Parliament. No one has objected to the presence of the NCMP, hoiyung: Clarification, Sir. The Member for Serangoon Gardens is a political scientist. He made the statement that MPs are MPs. I was waiting for him to address us on the issue of mandate, authority, representation and accountability of nominated MPs. Would he like to clarify on these points? 

  hoiyung: The mandate comes, as I said, from Parliament. Parliament has conferred on him an indirect mandate. [hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, can you direct your remarks at the Chair, please? Do you require further clarification? 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir still does not understand, I shall continue. 

  Mr Speaker: You still do not understand, Mr Chiam? 

    The objection to the drawing of the legs to a snake is more of a conservative view. The proposition to reform is of a more progressive view. Whether the NMP innovation may or may not be of advantage cannot be decided by debate in this House within 2 days. The results of many things can be seen only years after action. It is just like the subject of NCMP when it was introduced in 1984. There was much opposition from many including our PAP Backbenchers. After some time, it now seems that this system of NCMP has been accepted by us. 

    It is most ironical that the party which opposed this suggestion most was the Workers Party. Yet, now it is the same party that is the first to accept and be benefitted by the NCMP system. I wonder what hoiyung: May I have a few words of clarification, Sir, since the Member has asked for it? May I speak in Mandarin? 

  hoiyungasked me a question. I will reply in simple terms. The PAP all along does not welcome any criticism and does not allow criticism. Many people criticised the Government leaders for not allowing Opposition to speak out in the Parliament. Therefore, they devised the scheme of NCMPs as a cover-up in order to create the 

    Another clarification is about why I have accepted this NCMP position. The answer is very simple. Why do we take part in the elections? It is because we hope to become MPs, not to promote ourselves, but to speak up for the people, to promote the interests of the people, to promote and advance our ideals and the policies of our Party. that is why i have accepted this post of NCMP. At the same time, I must also explain that, in all these years of my political life, I have always believed that we should, whenever possible and permissible, make use of all available means to express our ideas and promote our Party policies. If Dr Koh could understand that, he would have understood everything. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, on the subject of NCMP and NMP, several fellow MPs have expressed their views. The pros and cons both have their say on the subject of NMP. I would like also to add my own opinion to the discussion on NMP. 

    The next question is about the setting up of the Special Select Committee and the choice of the nominees for NMPs. How are we to be sure that this Select Committee will be neutral and capable of selecting the right persons? How are we to be sure that the possible NMP candidates will be non-partisan and are capable people? What are the criteria for the selection of NMPs, on their personal achievements, academic qualifications or their organisational affiliation? Whatever yardstick we use, it is very difficult to be absolutely impartial in the process. Every organisation will think that they are very important in our society. They would like to nominate their own representatives. Since NMPs are not elected, they are not responsible to their electorate and need not answer for the government policy to the electorate and they need not execute or implement any Government policy. They can just take part in debating on Government policy. What effect or what role can they play? Also, if the Nominated MPs can also vote as elected MPs, we should ask ourselves whether they should enjoy this right, is this wise? Whereas compared to NCMP, there are certain voters who voted for him. Both the elected MP and the NCMP have got thousands of votes for them. So an NCMP can also be said to speak for and represent some people. But whom does an NMP represent, himself or his organisation? As long as they have the right to vote, one day there may be some politicians who will make use of their votes by buying over them. What will happen to our political scene if one day the number of NMPs should greatly increase? So I absolutely oppose to the right of NMPs to vote. The appointment of NMPs may affect the political consciousness of our people. There are some examples of other countries having Nominated Members in their parliaments but these examples only happen in the Third World countries. But Singapore today in economic development and social progress is at a position that ranks next only to Japan, in Asia. We are more or less a developed country. Are we admitting that in political development we are to be included among the Third World countries? Talking about activating the womenfolk by appointing some women NMPs, of those examples given, the women in those countries do not have 

    Now, there were two calls for referendum, one by the Member for Potong Pasir and the other by the Member for Fengshan. I thought I should comment on this because that deals with another aspect of government. And again, I quote from this popular version for layman and undergraduates. This is on the British system: 

    Just one small point on waste of expenditure. Mr Chiam said it would be a waste of public expenditure. I can debunk that point easily. This is a privilege which we are extending to a group of Singaporeans who, in our view, can contribute to good government, to the affairs of the State. We do not have to pay them any allowances if we do not want to. But, in my view, I think it is better that we pay them some allowances, not quite the same as the allowance for a Member of Parliament. It can be a quarter, it can be less. But if I have to meet his point, I can say, "Look, it is a privilege which we extend to you and you should be happy that you are given this privilege; therefore, no allowances." So his point on waste of expenditure is debunked. 

    If I may use this to illustrate why we think we should have nominated MPs. The point made by Mr Chiam is actually a political point, playing to the public gallery. "Here you are, the PAP getting six more people, paying them for what? Just for talking in Parliament. A waste of taxpayers' money." If we have nominated MPs over here, they will not be playing politics. They will be examining each Bill, each policy, for its intrinsic worth: does it or does it not benefit the people, and not does it or does it not benefit me as a Member of Parliament or as a party. 

    I think I have answered the questions. With regard to the Member for Potong Pasir, I must appreciate him mentioning 

    I am a bit shocked and surprised to hear the NCMP say that Singapore has the toughest law in the world, that we concentrate on punishment and deterrents and we enjoy inflicting bodily harm on people. But does he not acknowledge that we have been successful in containing our drug problem because we have opted for stiffer penalties? What is his solution for the long standing problem of increasing drug addicts throughout these years? He has not offered any. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of National Development and Ministry of Home Affairs and Government Whip. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, as at 30th April 1989, there are 10,900 unsold 3-room flats. Out of these, 3,300 units will be converted into bigger flats. 

    I understand that the Non-Constituency Member, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, all of us agree that there should be no traffic congestion in Singapore. The question is: how do we achieve such an objective? The Government has suggested a three-prong approach to tackle the problem of traffic congestion: to keep vehicle population down, to reduce usage of vehicles and to distribute traffic more evenly in terms of time and space through the ALS. The motion speaks of measures to curb road usage. But the principles involved, however, have not been spelt out. 

    I hope Dr Arthur Beng and Dr Tan Cheng Bock and the other MPs too will be able to support this amendment. This is not a partisan amendment from the Workers' Party. It is an amendment that all the people in Singapore would like to have and see being adopted. 

  Mr Speaker: I propose that the amendments by Mr Ng Pock Too and Dr Lee be debated together and I will pose the questions on these two amendments at the end of the debate. 

  Mr Speaker: What is your clarification, Dr Lee? 

    Dr Lee talks about inflation. What does he know about inflation? He lives in a country where his dollar is very well protected, where the exchange rate keeps on rising from time to time. And when we travel abroad, we feel richer; and more people are travelling abroad. And that is my evidence - that we are much better off. Look at the houses that we have, the space that we have, the parks that we have. We must not be an ungrateful people. 

    Sir, many views have been put forward on the evening ALS, the increase in season parking fees in HDB estates, the position of ALS fee for motorcyclists. These are valid views and valid concerns too. And Members are right indeed in voicing them out in this House. But what do we do in the meantime? Twiddle our thumbs and wait, or go deeper into study, as suggested by the NCMP, before we decide? It is like a 

 61.4%. However, among these 5,794 families, 1,604 families or 27.6% own vehicles and 302 families or 5.21% own motor cycles. That is to say, in Geylang West, 72.32% do not own vehicles. If we were to minus 400 vehicles belonging to companies, then the number of families will be 79% for non-car owners and 95% for non-motorcycle owners. For those who live in the 1 or 2-room flats in Geylang West:- there are only 37 vehicles and 21 motorcycles among them, which accounts for 0.6% and 0.0036% respectively. These proves that people who can least afford do not dare to won cars and, these increases, therefore least affect them. So, to the lower income group, what they need most is a better public transport service. I do not know what the Member for Fengshan and Non-Constituency Member meant yesterday when they talked about the worst affected being those who can least afford land the lower and middle income group of people owning the most vehicles and motor cycles respectively. I just cannot understand. Owing to the above reasons, I do not agree with the amendment brought up by Dr Arthure Beng. However, I support the original motion brought forward by Dr Hong Hai which was amended by Encik Abdullah. 

    Sir, I now turn to the other three amendments put forward by the Member for Fengshan, Mr Ng Pock Too and the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament, hoiyung: what is your 

    The first part of Dr Lee's amendment is to leave out all the words after "regrets". 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Abdullah Tarmugi's amendment to the original amendment having been agreed to, the amendments proposed by Dr Lee and Mr Ng will not be put to the vote. 

    Sir, 350,000 sounds like a lot relative to our present situation of 250,000. But is it? At the end of April 1989, this is the latest figure I have, we grew at the rate of 9.8%, round it off to 10%. If we continue to grow at that same rate, in less than 3(r) years we would exceed 350,000 cars. That explains the urgency. Dr Lee asked: "Why is it so urgent?" Why do we need to do this? Sir, good doctors, I am sure, know that prevention is better than cure. Prevention is better than procrastination. The situation is similar to a medical situation. Since so many Members have given medical analogies this afternoon I would add one more. Our traffic situation is like a patient. The doctor has discovered certain blockages in the certain arteries leading out from his heart. What does the doctor tell the patient? "Carry on. Do whatever it is you are doing. Carry on with your fatty foods, with your high cholesterol diet, your destructive lifestyle, with your smoking, with your drinking." Is that a responsible approach? Or should the doctor not tell the patient how serious the situation can get if he were to continue to do exactly what he has been doing before? Of course, Sir, not all patients are happy to receive such advice because it is painful. The doctor is asking him to change his lifestyle, maybe do some exercises and, maybe in extreme cases, take a certain number of bitter pills. It is not welcome but a responsible doctor has to do what is necessary. 

    Sir, non-action, when the situation is getting progressively worse, is action in itself. The situation to get out of hand and that is very costly. Dr Lee mentioned a moment ago that once, a 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of National Development and Ministry of Home Affairs and Government Whip. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the answer is yes. The Parks and Recreation Department thoroughly inspects all mature trees of girth 1.5 metres and above along roadsides and in parks. Mature trees are checked at least once every 18 months and for very large old trees, at least once a year. Trees which are diseased, unstable or are liable to cause injury or damage to property are removed. 

  The Minister for the Environment (Dr Ahmad Mattar): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to assure the Member for Potong Pasir, through his proxy, and indeed this House that we will always try to do our best in whatever we do, especially when serving members of the public. But sometimes we fall short of our ideals, Sir. As we all know, in any organisation, there will always be a few black sheep and it will not, therefore, be fair to generalise and white-wash the entire inspectorate force of my Ministry because of these few black sheep. 

  Mr Speaker: Dr Lee, could you ask the question? 

  hoiyung: Dr Lee, could you ask the question? 

presented by the Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament; and to be printed. 

    Let me first of all respond to the NCMP, Dr Lee, who opposes the Bill on the grounds that it curbs the free flow of information. Sir, how can anyone who has lived in Singapore over the last so many years believe that the Government can actually succeed in curbing the free flow of information? Indeed, how can anyone believe that it is in the interest of Singapore and Singaporeans to curb this free flow of information? Is it wise? We are an international business centre. We are a trading centre. We make a living out of knowing what is happening in the world, out of making sure that there is a free flow of information. 

    However, we in the Workers' Party, and I dare say the great majority of people in Singapore, have been most disappointed that the President has not agreed to remove the conviction of our Party Secretary-General, Mr J.B. Jeyaretnam, though of course we realize that the President has no choice in the matter. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Dr Lee, if you could confine your comments to the Election of President. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I thank Mr Chiam for that clarification. Ministers of Government, as the way he spells it out, do not go out in their official capacity to raise funds. In other words, I as the Deputy Prime Minister, will not approach any Party supporter to contribute to the Party. If I do approach, it will be in my capacity as Mr Goh Chok Tong, Assistant Secretary-General of the PAP. But in order that there is no hint of any improper practices even I, as Mr Goh Chok Tong or as Assistant Secretary-General of the PAP, do not approach anyone for funds for the Party. We leave it entirely to Party MPs who are not Ministers. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not quite follow the question of the Member for Potong Pasir. Which statement is he referring to? 

  hoiyung: The terms of the survey have been clearly stated by my colleague, BG George Yeo, in a statement on 4th August. I suggest Mr Chiam should read that again. 

    To avoid employing illegal workers unknowingly, as feared by the Member for Paya Lebar and the Member for Potong Pasir, I would suggest that they check with two departments when they want to employ workers - the Labour Ministry and the Immigration Department. In fact, to facilitate this, it may be proper to set up a special unit to expedite case-tracing of these workers. This will save time and facilitate business. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of National Development and Ministry of Home Affairs and Government Whip. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the answer is yes. The rusty upfeed water pipes will be replaced. The Housing and Development Board intends to carry out this work in Tiong Bahru Town Council in December 1990. It will be completed by November 1991. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Dr Lee can use whatever term. All it means is that the Government is going to exercise extreme caution. 

presented by the Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Home Affairs (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time." 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, first of all, I would like to thank both Members for supporting this Bill which will give effect to the proposed change of NRIC. On the question raised by Mr Zulkifli on the details that would be made available to the public to guide them on the conversion, let me assure Members of the House that we will make every relevant detail public so that people who need to change their ICs will know exactly when and what to do. They should not in any way be inconvenienced through a lack of information. 

    The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill. - [Dr Lee Boon Yang]. 

    The NCMP's criticism of the Bill and his call for its abolition is contradicted by his own speech. Throughout the speech he applauded the relative crime-free state in Singapore. Crime rate has gone down, secret society activities have been brought down. His conclusion is that we should therefore abolish it. My response to that is, as Mr Loh Meng See has very vividly put it, if this is the pleasant state of affairs, it is precisely because the Government had the 

    This is perhaps an extreme example. Colleagues in the House who have travelled to various countries will know that in many countries, including "civilized" countries which the NCMP mentioned, it is not safe to walk on the streets at night and in some places even during day time. Here, tourists and visitors readily applaud the fact that they feel safe and secure and our people feel safe and secure. 

    The best testimony and the best reasons for the continuation of the Act are indeed the reasons given by the NCMP, ie, we have achieved a relative degree of security, peace and safety and we must continue with that. If you abolish this Act, what signals are you giving? A clear signal to the drug trafficker and to the secret society elements is that now the only option is for the Government to get a court prosecution and therefore reprisals of witnesses, intimidation of witnesses, buying of witnesses, will lead to no prosecution and 

    The NCMP said that preventive detention in this form is a negation of the rule of law, not to be found in any civilized society. Mr Speaker, Sir, I meet from time to time with visiting delegations of law enforcement officers in other parts of the world. When they hear about our preventive detention laws, they tell me privately that how much they wished they could have this law in their country but, alas, they wring their hands in despair and said that the political lobbyists and the human rights lobbyists are so powerful that they will never be able to get this legislation through. But countries in our region are also aware and, far from deploring our legislation as a despicable act of departure from the rule of law, our Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act has in fact been cited as a model and from time to time ASEAN drug enforcement experts have urged governments to adopt such preventive detention. Indeed, the ASEAN Inter- Parliamentary Organization (AIPO) of which this Parliament is a member and participates, has repeatedly adopted resolutions to this effect and if I may quote a typical AIPO resolution. This is the resolution of the ASEAN Inter Parliamentary Organization's General Assembly: 

    Sir, let me now go to the points raised by Mr Shanmugam. I understand that from the purist legal approach, this surely must nag the conscience of any constitutional lawyer. So when he asked, and I think the NCMP asked, is "temporary provisions" a misnomer? In a sense yes. Maybe the Chairman of the GCP is right - change it! But would that be right? I do not think so. We need to have this law so long as the problem exists, so long as you want to be sure that it does not rear its ugly head and go back to the days of the 1950's. But why do we come to Parliament every five 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, I understand that you will not be speaking on the motion. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC), Senior Minister of State, Ministry of National Development and Ministry of Home Affairs and Government Whip. 

    Sir, yesterday, I heard several of my colleagues in the Backbench spoke. I am happy to note their contributions. Some voiced their concerns, some made comments, but all these would definitely be taken into consideration by the Select Committee which will be set up after the Second Reading of this Bill. However, Sir, I was not present in the House to hear the speech from the Non-Constituency Member, Dr Lee, except gleaning through the newspapers today. I can understand his comments because he has been long in politics. But I think I would not be too unkind to him nor too critical of him when I say this because I happen to be around for so long. He was also in the PAP government of 1959 when he served as Parliamentary Secretary until he and his group broke away in 1961 to form the Barisan Sosialis. Perhaps he can now tell the House and throw some light on what happened in those years, especially when I look around, most of the Members of this House are quite young. I would not say they are "new". He could tell us why he and his group left the PAP to form the Barisan Sosialis and to contest in the 1963 general elections with some 44 candidates, if my memory serves me right, and wanted to capture political power through the ballot, the one-man-one-vote system, and they were very confident of winning the elections. 

    What would have happened if they had won? Yesterday, in the Members' Room, after I had a cup of tea with Dr Lee I asked him this. But if he could spare some time, he could tell us what happened. Sometime in 1965/1966, when he was Chairman of the Barisan Sosialis, he told his Barisan Sosialis MPs to resign from Parliament and to take to extra-parliamentary struggle. As a result, the Barisan Sosialis boycotted the 1968 general elections. Acts of vandalism were committed. But strange enough, after some years, the Barisan Sosialis decided to come back and participate in the general elections. That was something interesting, but they did not win any seat at all until the 1988 general elections when Dr Lee himself went over to the Workers' Party. Now, he is an NCMP and making contributions in this House. 

    Voting by Members of Parliament of the party in power and the Opposition is governed by the Whip in true Westminster style. But for stability, the integrity of government and government institutions must prevail even in the midst of a parliamentary tussle. That we do not have much of a tussle these days does not mean there will be no parliamentary tussle in the future. The Member for Potong Pasir would surely agree. Such integrity can better be guaranteed with the institution of the Elected Presidency who does not have to partake of the parliamentary fray. The Elected Presidency is a new milestone in our political development. For the past 30 years, Singapore has achieved much in the way of economic development. We must also match our economic development with the necessary institutions in political structures to support our long-term overall development. 

    I remember during the previous general election campaign, calls were made by the Opposition parties for more checks and balances on the PAP Government. This Bill, if passed, will provide significant checks on the Government's actions on issues pertaining to the ISA, CPIB investigations, religious harmony, key appointments in the civil service as well as to provide an additional safeguard on our reserves. I was therefore a bit surprised to hear the NCMP express his party's strong opposition to the Bill. Sir, I suspect the main objection to the Elected President proposal is because the current Prime Minister appears to be an ideal candidate. The prospect of having another PAP man elected by the population as the President probably makes them feel a little bit less enthusiastic about the Bill, despite the desire to have more checks and balances on the Government. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, our country is getting wealthier, financial matters more complicated, legislations are also getting more complicated; people's expectations are more, demand to spend on our accumulated wealth is also tempting. How do we cope with all these competing needs and expectations? We have indeed gone about putting in place certain institutions, as informed by Prof. Jayakumar this morning, like the GRC, the Town Councils, the NCMP, the NMP, Maintenance of Religious Harmony Bill, to cover but some of the 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker Sir, the Government maintains all public areas in Singapore including those in the private residential estates. For example, about 500 km of roads and 60 hectares of open spaces in private residential estates which are vested in the State are currently being maintained by the Public Works Department and the Parks and Recreation Department respectively. As part of maintenance, these roads, sidewalks and open spaces 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I have said in my main answer, if there are public facilities which are old and need upgrading in these old private residential estates, my Ministry will certainly look into them and upgrade them in due course. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, Singapore permanent residents who purchase resale flats from the open market must abide by the following conditions. First, the flats must be owner-occupied. Second, the lessees must live in the flats for 30 months before the flats can be resold on the open market. Third, each family nucleus is only allowed to own one HDB flat. Fourth, no subletting of the entire flat is allowed. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Hongkonger and some of his family members are eligible by relocating in Singapore and wish to purchase a flat, we will allow them to do so. Subsequently, if only he himself wants to occupy the flat, it will also be allowed. The important point is that the applicant, the owner of the flat, must live in the flat. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: No doubt it is a difficult task to monitor and see whether the owner is actually living in his flat and for how long. But let me assure the Member that HDB will be able to monitor. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Public Works Department has an on-going programme to upgrade street lighting. The street lighting along Bedok North Road is scheduled to be upgraded in 1990. 

    Sir, you will notice from the table that in June and July 1989 about 140,000 cards were sold each month, almost double the number sold in January. The total number of cards sold in the first seven months of this year is about 820,000 (ie one card for every three Singaporeans), a clear indication of their convenience and popularity. The NCMP is thus mistaken. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the trouble with the NCMP is that he thinks the world works the way he fancies. In my reply, it is very clear that the cardphones are gaining popularity among our population. Even after the coinphones are phased out, the public who do not buy the cardphones can still use coinaphones, which are widely available in Singapore. So the public will not be inconvenienced. 

 is it that after July 1975, when the Workers' Party was ordered to pay costs after losing its slander action against a former PAP MP, its bank accounts never contained more than $500, even though between 1976 and 1980 the Party had collected $24,008 in donations and expended $45,196 in election and other expenses? Mr Jeyaretnam could not explain why this was not a deliberate scheme to defraud the creditors. 

    2. In the election petition on behalf of the Workers' Party, he had failed to serve the petition on the Returning Officer as required by law?" 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, there is a delay in selling 47 shop units in Blocks 846 and 848 of Neighbourhood 8, 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I said in my main answer, the mini-market will be tendered out in October 1989 and the rest of the shops will be ready soon. As far as the shops in Blocks 846 and 848 are concerned, they will be tendered out after the conversion in late 1990. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, tender for the conversion of Block 609 at Ang Mo Kio Avenue 5 has been called. The tender will be closed in early October 1989 and work will commence in December 1989. The conversion work is expected to complete in December 1990. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, the HDB has no plans to convert the flats in Block 105 at Commonwealth Crescent into bigger units. This block is scheduled for demolition by the middle of 1990 to make way for future development. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the parcel of land bounded by Strathmore Avenue, Dawson Road and Alexandra Canal has already been earmarked for the building of additional flats under the new booking system. Tender for this project will be called in the middle of next year. 

  hoiyung: Order, Mr Chiam. Earlier on when I asked the House if there were any dissenting views on the Minister's request to move a motion to exempt the debate from the provisions of the Standing Orders, ie, to remove ourselves from the constraint of the half-hour time limit, there were no objections. But your objection was directed against the moving of the motion of the adjournment by the Minister. And if you know your Standing Orders, the Minister is within his right to move a motion for the adjournment without any notice. You really have no grounds for any objections to the debate. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I just want to make one point with regard to Mr Chiam's point that the Opposition has not been given notice. I believe, Sir, at the beginning of this month, at the first meeting of the Mendaki/MOE Committee, I was asked by reporters as to when I would be announcing the Ministry's decision on the teaching of Religious Knowledge in schools, and I said that I would do it at the next sitting of Parliament. I also notice that in today's Straits Times, it is stated very prominently that I will be coming to Parliament today to announce the Ministry's decision. I think enough notice must have been given. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, in the absence of the Leader of the House, may I say that I agree with the Member for Potong Pasir when he said that it is an 

  hoiyung: On a point of clarification on what Mr Chiam said. I did not make that statement. I asked the question for the Minister's clarification. 

    To answer Mr Chiam's point whether this actually changes the Government's decision on religion, the answer must be no, because the position is very clear with regard to religion. Everybody is free to practise whatever religion he wants to practise. The state is secular. On that fundamental, there is no change. 

    Before 1982, as Mr Chiam mentioned, the Christian schools did a great deal by making great contributions, particularly in religious education and things like that. They did that without going through the formal curriculum. They found other means of doing so. So we could go back to pre-1982. The Christian schools could still continue to do whatever they had done before 1982. The Muslims, with so many mosques now and through Mendaki, MUIS or whatever body, because they are interested in the children's education and since so much efforts have been made, they can do that. 

    Therefore, I hope the Ministry of Education in compiling Civics course will pay great attention to culling and harnessing the various aspects and scopes of the deeper essence and values from various sources without undue religious colour as education is a sacred task. To educate the people, four aspects of education should be stressed, they are moral, knowledge, physical and social education. Without RK as a curriculum subject in school will not make our younger generation walking corpses as alleged by the Member for Potong Pasir. On the contrary, with the subject Civics introduced into the schools, I believe, our people will be imbued with more Eastern traditional cultural values and more able to promote our economy and the advancement of our country a step forward in our nation building. 

    Thirdly, Sir, in implementing moral and civics education, we duly recognise the multi-ethnic and religious composition of our society and the complications that may arise if allowance is made to promote values of one religion over others. Sir, we can ill-afford to allow communal groups to ruin our social and economic well-being by inciting religious conflicts and differences. There are many historical lessons to draw from many multi-ethnic societies where religion and language have led to communal strifes and consequently breakdown of these societies. I agree with Mr Chiam that we should learn from history and we should preserve historical traditions. But there are a lot of lessons from history that we can learn and I am sure that he is quite aware that in many societies, because of religious differences, communal conflicts, such societies have broken down. And I am quite sure that Mr Chiam and myself would not want to see this happen in the context of Singapore. 

    Sir, a number of Members have touched on the very important topic about what would be the result of this new policy change on our mission schools, on the schools set up by the various religious groups. The Members include the Member for Cheng San GRC, the Member for Fengshan, the Member for Potong Pasir. This, Sir, is a very important point. I think we have to recognise that schools which are set up by the various religious groups, whether they are church groups, the Mission Schools or the Buddhist Schools, these schools have their own distinctive identities. I do not think that we would wish all our schools to operate in exactly the same way. Indeed, it is for that very reason that we have encouraged some schools to go independent. It is good for our children that schools should be differentiated, that each school should have its own character. And a mission school is a mission school, a Buddhist school is a Buddhist school, and a Catholic school is different from a Methodist school, a Methodist school is different from a Buddhist school. And if you eliminate all vestiges of that particular religion from that school, then I do not see what you are left with. 

    Just one point from the Member for Potong Pasir who regretted the change because the teaching of RK was, as he said, a basic institution within our education system. I think this is not the case. In fact, before 1982, it was taught as an optional subject. We have now returned to 

    Dr Wan Soon Bee, Member for Pasir Panjang GRC, has given a very accurate and thorough description of implications and consequences of smoking. Smoking has implications not just for the smoker himself but for the family, the friends, the people around him and definitely has a tremendous impact on the economy. That is why we are having such a strong programme to reduce the rate of smoking. Several Members, including Mr Chiam and hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move the motion* standing in my name as it appears on the Order Paper. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, the HDB has a policy to give priority to an applicant to select a flat on a lift landing floor or on lower floors, if he or a family member is 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, senior citizens who are owner-occupiers of private property can apply to purchase HDB flats upon selling their properties provided they satisfy the following criteria: 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, in 1978, HDB embarked on a programme to provide barrier-free design in all its new developments to facilitate mobility of senior citizens and the physically disabled. The provisions have been mainly in the form of gentle ramps leading to carparks, lift lobbies, paths leading to other blocks or communal facilities. In the case of existing HDB estates, similar provisions are carried out under the 5-yearly Repairs and Redecoration Programme. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your question? I think you are engaging in a debate. Ask your question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam is a lawyer. He should know that under the Immigration Act it is clearly defined that an overstayer is a person who came in on a valid social visit pass and has overstayed. Whether or not he has a forged work permit or not, he still is an overstayer. 

  Mr Speaker: Order. I would like to inform Mr Chiam, if you have asked the question I think you should wait for the reply before interjecting again. You may continue, Prof Jayakumar. 

  Mr Speaker: Yes. It is a point of order, Dr Lee. Please resume your seat. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, it is important for me to interject at this stage. The Bill was introduced at the last sitting. When it was introduced, I was asked, Sir, by you when would the Second Reading take place. And I said at the next available sitting. Today is the next available sitting since the last sitting and the required period provided under the Standing Orders was complied with. The notice of introduction of the Bill was circulated to all Members and the matter appears on the Order Paper today. So I cannot see how Dr Lee or any other Member could not know that at the next sitting following the last, this Bill would be taken up. 

    First, I want to refer to what hoiyung: Sir, listening to Dr Lee on the proposed amendments, one would get the impression that the entire legal system and the judicial system in our country is breaking down. However, much of his arguments are based on the presumption that there are no rights to the Privy Council. That is, however, not the case with the proposed amendments. They seek to provide for appeals between consenting parties. 

    Secondly, the question of local conditions. From the time when we received English law in 1823 under the Charter of Justice right until the recent decision of the Privy Council, if Dr Lee were to read these legal material, including the judgments of the Privy Council, he will see the phrase "local conditions" repeated over and over again. Law cannot be distinct from the cultural context of any civilization of any country. We live in a multi-racial society which is different from England. And local conditions has a definite meaning. For example, laws in sedition, laws as on freedom of speech when it infringes upon toleration of other races, religious beliefs and so on, will have to be enforced with greater strictness in Singapore than perhaps in England. Thus, we have to take into account local conditions. The question is not whether local conditions differ but whether they necessitate the present amendments. 

    My final point, Sir, is that at least some sections of the public may question and, in fact, Dr Lee has questioned the reasons for the amendment. It may be argued that the Government does not wish itself where it is the litigant to be subject to the jurisdiction of the Privy Council in civil cases. That, Sir, is a sensitive point and will not go away. It will be in the minds of at least some people and I hope that the Minister will take steps to clarify the position and the reasons for the amendment, paying perhaps particular attention to that point. 

    I think this is not the case with our magistrates and with our judges. But even if it were so, even if it were the case, that the cream of our society, some of the best educated in our society, some of the leaders of our society, do not have the courage, sense of justice, the gumption, the spine, to do what is right and not what will please the Government, even if it were so, I would still support the proposal to cut ourselves off from the Privy Council. Because if we, as a society and as a people, can only have people at the very top of this calibre, of this lack of a sense of justice, of courage, then we as a people deserve our fate. Do we still want to be tied, as the Member for Potong Pasir said, to the apron strings of the British? Do we want others to look after our interests? Or do we think that we are mature enough people to look after our own interests? And that if we cannot look after our own interest, we should throw up people within 

    My view is that we should be completely cut off immediately for all appeals to Privy Council. But I can see why some interim measures are needed; that this cannot be done away with immediately. I think the suggestion that the Member for Potong Pasir made is a good one, that we should have a substitute, maybe a full-time Court of Appeal. And that certainly I am sure is something that my colleague, the Minister for Law, and the Cabinet will look into. But that does not mean that we should not already take steps to be a truly independent people. I know I am expressing a layman's view. But I think this is a view that we ought to think about carefully. Do we want to continue to depend upon others to look after us? Or do we think that we are ready to look after our own interests? And, if necessary, force our society to throw up leaders who would look after our interest. 

    'I would like to go on record that I think it is high time that Singapore, after over 20 years of our judicial system in Singapore, should grow up and not be tied to the apron strings of the Privy Council.' I think sometimes, Sir, he speaks from the heart. I think that was the occasion. And sometimes when he has the script, he speaks to the gallery. So I feel tempted to ask: will the real Mr Chiam, please put up his hand? 

    Both Mr Chiam and Dr Lee asked, will the Government give advance notice whether it is going to consent? Obviously we cannot. It must depend on the transaction, it must depend on the case. Sometimes the Government may be the plaintiff, the Government may be the prosecutor and sometimes maybe the defendant. It depends on the individual case. 

  hoiyung: I think Dr Lee during the tea break should discuss with both Mr Chiam and the other two lawyers here because whether there is one judgment in respect of which the other two judges agree is irrelevant or whether there are three separate judgments or whether there are two judgments and one judge agrees with the other is also irrelevant. The point is, were the three judges unanimous or not regardless of how many judgments they wrote. That is the test. 

  Mr Davinder Singh: Sir, if I might just repond to something that Dr Lee said. He asked whether it is desirable to direct the judges sitting on the Court of Appeal to write three judgments. 

  hoiyung: He is perfectly in order. This is a debate, Mr Chiam. Carry on, Mr Singh. 

    As I was saying before Mr Chiam stood up, in England there are numerous occasions when a Court of Appeal decide and in the reports you have three judgments. This is no criticism. But to direct the three judges write does not make a difference because what you will have, as has often happened in England, is one major judgment and the other two judges appear in the report with two lines saying, "I have read the illuminating reasons of my Learned Brother and I entirely concur." And that is a judgment, Sir. So if you direct that all three judges will write, this is a possibility, and really it does not make any sense. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, my reply to Mr Chiam is very simple. What he said in February can be interpreted only to mean one thing, that he had favoured completely cutting off "the apron strings" immediately because he said it was high time. What we have done is, we have taken the approach which at least retains some appeals for the reasons given by many Members in this House. In other words, if he had come to this House completely cutting off appeals, he would have supported it. But because we have not gone the full length, he is opposing it. I want to know whether I am right in that. 

    Singapore has always spoken against protectionism in any form. This is understandable because we started with entrepot trade and we will continue to depend on it. This policy has made Singapore what it is today. I have no doubt that this policy will still be with us. To require our citizens to have half a tank of petrol before entering Johor Baru can be misunderstood as a subtle form of protectionism. This misunderstanding is already confirmed by Dr Lee when he said that it is a protectionist policy. We must address this issue very carefully, otherwise it will weaken our position when we next speak against protectionism. 

    I think there were 14 speakers. Obviously, this is a subject of great emotional interest. I therefore propose to take a little more time on it than I would normally do because of the large diversity of subjects which have been raised. But before doing so, I will dispose of one main misapprehension which has been raised by Dr Lee and several other Members here. This is that this half-tank regulation - I think that is going to be a common name now - will in fact result in restriction of the trade and is against the rules of free trade which we ourselves support. This is totally untrue and I will explain why. 

  hoiyung: I wish to thank all the Members who have spoken in support of the Bill. In particular I note that Dr Lee has also supported the Bill. 

  The Senior Minister of State for Defence (Dr Lee Boon Yang) (for the Prime Minister and Minister for Defence): Mr Speaker, Sir, for operational reasons, it is essential for MINDEF to know where our reservists are so that we can recall them at short notice. This is a major consideration when deciding on the validity period of reservists' passports. We must be certain that reservists can be reached when they are needed. Hence, reservists must inform their units when they go overseas. At present, they can leave Singapore for up to six months at a time without applying for an Exit Permit. The computerised immigration system set up last year by the Immigration Department will help in keeping track of reservists who do not come back within six months of being away. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am aware that if they travel out of Singapore for less than six months they do not need an Exit Permit but they have to inform their units. Nonetheless, MINDEF still feels that at this point of time the two-year validity is required in order to maintain the operational readiness. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, the present validity of reservists' passports is two years. But I thank the Member for bringing up this point about the inconvenience faced by some reservists at foreign immigration check- 

    On whether we make mistakes, we never claim to be infallible. Of course, we make mistakes. But if Dr Lee has got a specific mistake in mind, we can discuss it. On this particular subject, I have already explained clearly why Eu Court was acquired and why the road widening is necessary. That is not a mistake. 

    Complaints against inaccuracy can be made directly to the newspaper, TV or radio station involved. Libel action can be taken in court. Or like the NTUC's dispute with the Straits Times, complaints can be made at public forums, or even in this House, as Dr Lee has done from time to time. 

Dr Lee Boon Yang (Jalan Besar GRC)

    Sir, you will be presiding over an enlarged House of 81 elected Members. Eighteen of them are new. May I welcome them. For the first time in this Parliament, there will be one Non-Constituency Member (NCMP). He was in this Chamber 25 years ago. I am sure he is glad to be back. The presence of this honourable gentleman belies the myth in some quarters, some in his own Workers' Party that he represents, that the Non-Constituency MP is a second-class MP. We are glad that the Workers' Party has now accepted the NCMP scheme. We do welcome this honourable gentleman to this House and I hope that he will play a constructive role in this House. [Applause.] 

  hoiyung: I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all of you for electing me Speaker of our Seventh Parliament. I would also like to thank the Leader of the House and the Member for Potong Pasir for their kind words about me. 

(Disqualification as Non-Constituency Member)

  Mr Speaker: I wish to inform hon. Members that Mr Francis Seow Tiang Siew who was declared as having been elected as a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament on the 16th day of September 1988 has since the 17th day of December 

    For three of the offences for which he was convicted on the 17th December 1988, he was fined $3,000 for each offence and in respect of the two offences for which he was convicted on the 20th December 1988, he was fined $5,000 for each offence. The Attorney-General has advised that, on account of the fines imposed on him by the District Court on the 17th and 20th December 1988, Mr Francis Seow Tiang Siew has been disqualified to be a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament since the 17th day of December 1988, by reason of the provisions of Article 45(1)(e) of the Constitution. 

    I have to therefore inform hon. Members that Mr Francis Seow Tiang Siew ceased to be a Non-Constituency Member of Parliament with effect from the 17th December 1988. 

    The first step towards this accommodation was the Non-Constituency Member of Parliament scheme. With NCMPs, there will always be several opposition MPs in Parliament, whatever the outcome of the general elections. Such non-government MPs can question Government policies and argue for alternative courses of action. Provided they do so constructively, they can help the Government to reshape national policies, and help the public to understand issues more clearly. The Government will review the NCMP scheme and increase the number of non-government MPs to achieve this. 

presented by the Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang); read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

presented by Dr Lee Boon Yang; read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

presented by Dr Lee Boon Yang; read the First time; to be read a Second time on the next available sitting of Parliament, and to be printed. 

  The Senior Minister of State for National Development (Dr Lee Boon Yang): Mr Speaker, Sir, I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Second time." 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to thank all the Members who have spoken up in such strong support for the amendments to the Town Councils Act. I would like to now address some of the questions which have been asked by Members and also some reservations which have been expressed. 

    Finally, Sir, I come to the Member for Potong Pasir. He has also supported the Amendment Bill. The fact that he himself admitted that his Town Council has had to send notices to residents and also put in a lot of manpower to recover arrears indicates how serious the problem of arrears is to all Town Councils, including the Potong Pasir Town Council. He stated that under the present Act all the fines that are collected for any offences under the by-laws or any offences under the Housing and Development Act and the Environmental Public Health Act are handed over to the State. I would like to correct him on this. Even under the delegated authority arrangements, Town Councils are reimbursed for their cost in helping both HDB and the Ministry of the Environment to enforce the relevant Act. In the case of 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is unhappy with the mode of application for grants under the Community Improvement Projects Committee, ie, the CIPC grants. I would like to point out to the Member that the mode of application for grants under the CIPC has not changed. CIPC was formerly known as the Urban and Rural Services Committee. It has always required any application for grants to be submitted through the CCC and there is a very good reason for this approach because the URSC, and now the CIPC, provides grants not only to Town Councils. The CIPC funds are available for any constituency to carry out improvement projects, even though it is in an area which may not be within the town. Because, as the Member is aware of, a Town Council's jurisdiction is limited to the common areas, the common properties, within the HDB housing estates. Many constituencies also have areas that are not within HDB housing estates, ie, the private housing areas and many of the shop houses which are non-HDB. 

    The House immediately resolved itself into a Committee on the Bill. - [Dr Lee Boon Yang]. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Now, Sir. I beg to move, "That the Bill be now read a Third time." 

    First of all, may I take Mr Chiam's query regarding where the Government's R&D funds have gone into. I do not have all the details but I can explain to the Member in general the two areas of funding for R&D which are supported by the Government. First of all, there would be the grants given to the various R&D institutes, such as the IMCB, which will be used to run these institutes. The second area of funding, will be in grants for research and development schemes, such as the Research and Development Assistance Scheme for private sector R&D effort. These were originally run by the Science Council but, as I indicated in my speech, it is going to be taken over by the NSTB. These are the two broad areas of funding. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Dr Lee, I suggest that you desist from that line of argument. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: I am sorry. According to the Standing Order, you have exhausted your time, Dr Lee. 