  hoiyung: I have asked the GPC for Communications to help my Ministry set up an experiment in order to conduct a trial on a basis whereby everybody will agree it is a fair trial. My Ministry is not convinced although there is a perception that it will make a difference. Let us discuss how we can conduct such an experiment, the result of which will convince either party whether he is right or wrong. In this respect, the views of Mr Chiam and other Members of this House will be most welcomed in drawing up this particular experiment. As far as the timing is concerned, it depends on how fast we can get these rules and regulations put into place. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think Mr Chiam's suggestion is a hybrid of the current system and the pay-as-you-bid system, as it were, whereby everybody pays what he bids. It is neither here nor there. If we want to try it, I think we will try the pay-as-you-bid system, as the people have suggested, whereby you pay for whatever you bid. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Hougang has proposed an amendment to the motion: 

  Mr Peter Sung (Buona Vista): Mr Speaker, Sir, I hear with some delight the remarks made by Mr Low. One or two points that he made are quite good. For example, he says that Ministers should not be motivated by money alone and that to take public office requires sacrifice on the part of the people coming forward. I think that is the very basis for people in Singapore to take part in politics. Everyone in the PAP, and several in the Opposition, come forward not because there is money but because they think they have a contribution to make to the governance of Singapore. 

    Mr Low also said that if this White Paper is passed as it is now, there will be no opportunity to debate Ministerial salaries. I think that is not the truth. Any Member of this House can, at any time, raise any question for discussion and if Mr Low does not know how, maybe the Speaker can guide him. 

    Mr Low asked how many hours a Minister works. That answer perhaps will 

    Mr Low says that people's livelihood has not improved over the last few years. That cannot be the truth. That must be a statement made with tongue in cheek. Every statistic that you can produce will attest to the fact that Singaporeans are much better off today than they were five years ago, 10 years ago, or 20 years ago. Maybe Mr Low has a poor memory. He has forgotten the hard days when we got out from the Japanese Occupation, the communal strife of the 1960s and the progress through the recession of the early 1970s, right through to the prosperity of today. 

    Mr Low says that by giving high salary, we get more money. More money leads to greed and that leads to requests for more money and, therefore, high salary indirectly leads to corruption. He is taking a position which is diametrically opposite of what the Government takes. The 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, private sector employees get salaries which are higher than what the public service pays. The link must be there whether you quantify it or not. Even if Ministers only get paid 10% of the average salary of a manager, even if it is that low, there is a link. The question really is: What is that level? I do not think Mr Low is arguing against the need for a link between public and private sector salaries. He is saying that the salary for Ministers is too high. Is it too high? 

    One final point, Mr Speaker, Sir. Mr Low says that the Government collects a lot of money at the expense of the people. Yes, money is collected. But money is now collected only from those who use the facilities. It is a user charge and those who do not use those facilities or do not need to use those facilities do not pay. 

    Sir, I cannot support the amendment put forward by Mr Low. 

    Sir, I shall like to ask the House to reject the amendment of by the Opposition Member, hoiyung: Can I remind Members that we are not debating the substantive motion and they should therefore confine their remarks to the amendment proposed by Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I ask you to confine yourself to the debate on the amendment? 

  hoiyung: I propose to take the vote on the amendment moved by the Member for Hougang. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, we have a long debate ahead of us. Do you really insist on a Division? 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, can I suggest that, to save time, your dissent be recorded. 

    At the same time, this White Paper would give our people ample opportunity to study and analyse the whole exercise, in a calm and rational manner. In fact, considering the capability of our present team of Ministers, if they were to resign and become Chief Executive Officers of multi-national companies, I am sure they would be more than competent to handle the job. In fact, it would be like putting fine timber to petty use. Therefore, by setting the benchmark of the Ministers' salaries based on the average of the principal earned income of the top four individuals from the six professions, it is very fair. Moreover, do not forget that they are going to receive only two-thirds of the average income. During the debate, many MPs neglected the fact that the Ministers are going to get only two-thirds of the average income of the top executives in the private sector, and not the full amount. On top of that, it would take three years for them to reach this benchmark. This reflects the fact that when a Minister takes up public office to serve the people, he has even to make some financial sacrifice. This is one of the good points of the White Paper. It is not like what MP Low Thia Khiang said just now, that the salaries of our Ministers are so high and so much. He gave people the impression that only fresh air is free in Singapore, and we have to pay for everything else. I do not disagree with this view of his. But when Mr Low runs his Hougang Town Council, he does not say that his residents do not have to pay their conservancy charges. They are also charging for their services. How is he going to explain this? 

    The corporate world in Singapore knows that PAP MPs have been carefully selected. A PAP MPship is like a Good Housekeeping seal, a hallmark of character and integrity that adds value to a person. I instituted the practice. If you look through the MP list, from 1955 onwards, you will find that in 1955 we had two barbers, two postmen, clerks, but they were unionists. They are not ordinary people. But with rising standards, every election term, I had to move with the higher educational level of the voters, something Mr Chiam learned rather late. So he discovered that he had to get graduates. I knew that. By 1968, I started moving in that direction. 

 Workers' Party, the SDP, the National Solidarity Party, the Singapore People's Party and so on and so on. None of them has ever assembled a team remotely credible as an alternative government. Yes, they have got hoiyungasked the press. They say, yes, they also switch off. It is very difficult to put your earphones on. It is a sad commentary on the standard of Singapore opposition politics. 

    The CPF also. Low interest rates, yes, but it has paid for all the infrastructure of our roads, bridges, airports, container ports, telecommunications, MRT, land reclamation. An ordinary group of people would think that up? No, Mr Chiam, you are wrong. You need entrepreneurs. I will say this, if we did not have the entrepreneurs, we would not be here and you would not be a lawyer, leading a quiet happy life. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, we cannot allow you to keep on seeking clarification. I will allow you one last clarification. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Mr Speaker, Sir, concerning Mr Chiam's query, I fail to see the link between the shortage of accommodation and the rising problem of illegal workers. This Bill concerns illegal foreign workers and the measures that are needed to deal with this problem of increasing numbers of illegal foreign workers. While the shortage of accommodation for foreign workers is in fact a problem faced by many employers, it has nothing to do with the subject that we are discussing today. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, if you would like to move a motion, please put it on paper and give it to the Clerk of Parliament. 

    The honorable Member for Potong Pasir would recall that Potong Pasir Town Council was given permission to organise a trade fair last year. This year, the Potong Pasir CCC applied for and obtained approval to organise a 32-day fair using both this year's and next year's quota. This approval is within our guidelines. 

    The Member for Nee Soon Central may also wish to know that retrenchment benefits, workmen's compensation, Central Provident Fund contributions and remuneration payable to workers in respect of vacation leave are also given priority under the Act. 

Chandra Das, S                             Low Thia Khiang

Cheo Chai Chen                               Eusofe

Ling How Doong                             Nil

Chandra Das, S                             Low Thia Khiang

Cheo Chai Chen                              Eusofe

Ling How Doong                             Nil

  hoiyung: Sir, I am afraid Mr Low did not understand my answer. I will say it again. For those who move to new estates, these are brand new estates, and there were no residents before, but now there may be 10,000-20,000 new residents coming in over the years, so 

  hoiyung: Sir, nearby to Mr Low's constituency, he may find large tracts of land being cleared and flats that are being built, for example, in the Punggol area and Sengkang area. When the new residents move in, they need grassroots organisations to serve them too. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, are you making a speech or asking a question? 

    I support Mr Low's suggestion that the Act be amended to allow all elected Opposition MPs to be appointed as advisors to the grassroots organisations. It is not just right to appoint a defeated PAP candidate to be the advisor of grassroots organisations, such as in Potong Pasir, it is an incongruity which must be put right. At Potong Pasir, as an elected MP, in fact I have to make applications for CIPC funds to the Chairman of the CCC for which the defeated candidate is the advisor. How do you think the defeated candidate will advise the CCC? To give support to the Opposition's application? Naturally not. My Town Council's applications for CIPC funds have been rejected. I am not surprised at those rejections. How can one expect a defeated candidate, who is trying hard to unseat the incumbent Member of Parliament, to support that MP in his community projects for which he will gain credit, and to make his own chances of success to be elected more remote? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, it came as no surprise to me that the three Opposition MPs have raised the same point. I suppose they may have discussed among themselves. But this is not a new point. It is a question which has been raised on many occasions, ever since I was the Minister for Community Development. A question was raised by Mr Chiam about the role of grassroots organisations and the advisors and the role of the Opposition. And I have explained many times too that grassroots organisations and the PA serve the interest of the Government. The Government's objective 

  hoiyung: Sir, the People's Association Act does not provide for such committees to be formed outside the Act, as required by the Member for Hougang. The PA Act has its own committees and organisations. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, may I remind you that the debate has ended and I have allowed you to seek clarification. But I will not allow you to continue with the questioning. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you should have asked these questions during the course of your speech. That is the point that I am trying to make to you. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: I think Mr Chiam did not understand my answer. I have already answered the question. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, I do not think you are seeking clarification. I think you are repeating yourself. I will put an end to the debate now. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, you are not seeking clarification on the point raised by the Minister in the course of his speech. You are in fact introducing new material into the debate. I will disallow that. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, are you rising to make a speech or are you seeking a clarification? 

    Mr Low asked whether we will release the studies of the cyclical works. Again, I will leave it to every Town Council to do so and to publish these studies to its own residents. For example, in Potong Pasir, over the next five years, for example, they will need to incur something like $4.8 million in their cyclical maintenance works. If you look at Potong Pasir, I think their accumulated surplus is about $300,000-plus and their sinking fund is much less than the $4.8 million. But these are studies which we do ourselves. I will leave it to Mr Chiam to do his own study, if he is re-elected for the next five years, and to convince his own residents whether or not his sinking fund, and even by locking up his accumulated surplus, would be sufficient to fund the future projects in Potong Pasir. This is for him to justify to his own residents. 

    (3) hoiyungasked Mr Ling to retract his allegations and offered to convene a public committee should he 

 refuse to do so. Although Mr Ling was not present in the House that day, he would have read in the newspapers of what I said. 

    Far from retracting their allegations, the SDP welcomed the formation of such a public committee. In a statement on 18th March 1996, the SDP Secretary-General, Dr Chee Soon Juan, said, "The Minister for Health Mr George Yeo had challenged the SDP to a public committee hearing to verify the figures on health care cost published in the latest issue of The New Democrat. The SDP welcomes the challenge (and) looks forward to taking part in such a public committee hearing." That being Mr Ling's and the SDP's position, I proposed to this House that Parliament convene a Select Committee to verify the health care subsidy of Government polyclinics and public hospitals on 21st March 1996. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, some Singaporeans have asked me why the Government did not simply ignore the wild allegations of Mr Ling and the SDP. But had the Government not reacted, the allegations would have grown wilder over time. A few Singaporeans might even misinterpret the silence of the Government as confirmation that the allegations are true. Mr Ling and the SDP would then have been encouraged to exploit other public concerns for their own ends. Hence, I had no choice but to ask Parliament to convene the Select Committee in order to establish the truth and put it beyond doubt that health care costs in Singapore are heavily subsidised. 

    In view of this, I do not intend to discuss the basis for the Committee's findings in detail today. Everything is in the Select Committee's Report. The facts and figures speak for themselves. The conclusion is absolutely clear: There is substantial Government subsidy of health care in polyclinics and public hospitals; and Mr Ling and the SDP had no basis at all for making their allegations. 

    We had to bring in the Auditor-General because of the way Dr Chee Soon Juan, the Secretary-General of the SDP, had cast aspersions on the integrity of the civil service. He said "looking at some of the figures and some of the things that the 

 MOH has said give us reason to be highly suspicious of figures." Dr Chee claimed that there was "a pattern here of overcharging, of overstating the charges." Mr Ling was there when Dr Chee said those words. Mr Ling did not contradict Dr Chee when those charges were made. For this reason, we had to call in an independent body to audit the Ministry of Health. I would like to record here the gratitude of the Select Committee to the Auditor-General and his staff for their good work. They laboured long hours into the night and over weekends, and testified before the Select Committee without fear or favour. And both hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to support the motion standing in the name of the Minister for Health. 

    Sir, you chaired the Select Committee on the Verification of Health Care Subsidy of Government Polyclinics and Public Hospitals. We had a number of very long sessions. We heard several representors including that from the Singapore Democratic Party. In retrospect, the work of the Select Committee is not without beneficial outcomes. 

    The SDP had wanted to "hold the Government accountable to the people for 

 its claims on the health care subsidies". They accused the Government of "a pattern of overcharging, of overstating its charges". They had cast serious aspersions against the integrity of the civil service. However, Mr Ling and the SDP forgot the dictum that those who live in glass houses do not throw stones. 

    The allegations of Mr Ling and the SDP could not stand. Instead, the Ministry of Health officials have proven once again that they could be relied upon to administer Government policies effectively and judiciously. The Health officials are thoroughly professional in their work, ready and able to withstand public scrutiny any time. 

    The SDP is made up of a group of disparate people. There is no teamwork. Singaporeans should be forewarned if the SDP ever says they are putting up a team in a GRC for elections. SDP should be asked: how is it that with the four representors each did not know what the other is doing? 

  Mr Speaker: I think I will allow Mr Ling to continue. 

  hoiyung: All right, Mr Ling. I recognise that you need to defend yourself. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, would you like to give way to General George Yeo. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to ask Mr Ling whether the error affected the amount Mr Kow had to pay. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think it is clear that Mr Ling is quibbling. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Members now have a sense of the flavour of the Select Committee. $19 out of $140, which was the rectified amount, is 86%. Government only claims that C class wards are subsidised 80%. But, in fact, based upon the corrected actual amount, it is 86%. If it was upon the erroneous amount of $225, it would have been much higher. But Government only claims 80%. It is a very material percentage, Mr Ling. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Chairman, Sir, I think this really proves the point that we are making. Mr Ling is now suggesting that the figures for Tan Tock Seng Hospital are cooked up, that the $140 are not the real costs, that we were somehow misleading him and members of the public as to the true cost of providing a C class bed. He had ample opportunity during the Select Committee hearings to ask the officials and to ask the Auditor-General to check the numbers to make sure that $140 was inflated. He did not. Why is that? 

  An hon. Member: Mr Ling, you want to deal with fees? 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think this is quite a grahic illustration of prevarication. Can I also ask Mr Ling, Mr Speaker, Sir, whether he remembers seeing tables during the Select Committee meeting showing the charges, bill sizes for admissions to Tan Tock Seng Hospital versus private hospitals and bill charges by disease conditions? Does Mr Ling remember those tables? 

  hoiyung: Would you like to resume your speech, Mr Ling? There is no more clarification. You have the floor. 

 have watched the proceedings, I think this appears to be so much deja vu. We really should not be replaying in the House the whole proceedings of the Select Committee again. We are here to debate the Report. We are here to shed further light on the issue and Mr Ling at this moment is intent on saving his own skin. 

    Let us be clear. He is the Chairman of the SDP. He is responsible for the SDP's newsletter, The New Democrat. He is responsible for the written submission of the SDP to the Select Committee and what has he got to say about this. Yes, there could be something like assertion of facts, but facts can be proven wrong. Figures have been given by SMA and the charges by polyclinics have been verified by the Singapore Medical Association which is an independent professional body. Opinions can be misleading, especially if they are based on wrong facts. So if we carry on like this, 14 hours of debate and hundreds of thousands of dollars spent on the hearings, then they have come to nothing. 

    We knew it was so difficult to make progress with Mr Ling at the Select Committee meetings. Every single step forward, there were two steps backward. At the end, he claimed that there was no such thing as subsidy. His definition of "subsidy" is so strange that nobody will understand him. If the Opposition wants to engage in a constructive debate with the Government, rightly over an issue which concerns public health care costs, surely, there must be some common starting ground. He said that he meant one thing but we meant another. How can we talk? The common understanding of subsidy is so well-defined in the dictionaries and yet his final position was that there was no such thing. 

    I just want to share with the House some impressions I have of the proceedings of the Select Committee without going over the details of our examination or inquiry again, especially my impression of the representation made by Dr Chee Soon Juan and the SDP. As I said, Mr Ling is the Chairman of the SDP. He should take some responsibility for the submission of the SDP. But here, 

 I am not speaking only as a Member of the Select Committee, but also speaking from years of experience in teaching and researching at the National University of Singapore. What disturbed me was the shoddiness of the written representation submitted by the SDP to the Select Committee. Since the SDP welcomed the formation of the Select Committee and said it was looking forward to taking part in the public hearing, one would expect that the SDP would take the whole exercise seriously and present a credible case to challenge the Government's position. What came about was a big disappointment. The written representation submitted to the Select Committee was full of factual errors. The various charts that formed the backbone of the SDP's allegation were very poorly prepared with obvious and gross errors in the headings and contents. 

    Chart 1 was crucial to the SDP's allegation. It was supposed to show that the Government health expenditure as a percentage of total Government expenditure had declined over the years since 1970. There were four points on the graph corresponding to the years 1970, 1985, 1989 and 1990. The chart showed a drastic drop between 1989 and 1990, from 27% to only 5%. This drastic drop in a matter of one year would have caused any researcher to take a very close look to find out what were the reasons behind this and whether there could have been any computational errors. Unfortunately, Dr Chee did none of that. I recall that we at the Health Ministry --- 

  hoiyung: Order. Dr Wong, would you like to give way to Mr Ling to make a clarification? 

 1985 prices. Also, M. Ramesh never explained his methodology in his article, but surprisingly, Dr Chee managed to reconstruct his wrong methodology successfully. I find it very amazing that Dr Chee was ingenious enough to reconstruct the incorrect method. But it never occurred to him that he should check his computation for 1990 to verify the trend against an extension of time series data between 1991 and 1994. The data has already been published. As a researcher, I would have gone to take a look at what lay beyond 1990 in order to see whether the sudden drop in 1990 was in accord with the trend or not. So he did not do his work right. I am speaking as someone who has experience with research and think that this piece of work should have been presented with all serious intention and deliberation, because the SDP knew very well that it was coming before a Parliamentary Select Committee. I was quite disappointed with the quality of the research. 

    As for Mr Ling, my impression of his attitude at the Select Committee is that actually a lot of the times he was not really paying very much attention to the proceedings of the Committee. It was only when he was pushed and asked to answer questions that he really had to face the facts, so to speak, and what you see on the television snippets are those moments that he was asked to answer questions. 

    As the Minister had already indicated when the Auditor-General gave his reports and so on, Mr Ling did not ask questions. When the Health Ministry came and gave their representation, he kept on asking only about Sunny Kow's case. 

  hoiyung: Dr Wong, do you want to give way to Mr Ling? 

  Dr Aline Wong: No. As he said, he had said enough. In the end, Mr Ling claimed that he had never doubted that the Government spent substantial amounts on health care and he said his principal disagreement had been only with the definition of subsidy. I have already 

    Again, I would like to remind Mr Ling that he himself is a Member of the House. He has every right to raise questions about health care subsidies in this House and we would never hide from his questions. Why is there the need to take this outside the House and cause all these things to happen? 

  Mr Speaker: Yes, Mr Ling. 

  Dr Aline Wong: Can I ask Mr Ling, as Chairman of the SDP, was he not interested in finding out what was going on and finding an answer to his questions? 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling just said that he answered only when he was asked questions because he was only a Member of the Committee. He was not a representor. But as Chairman of the SDP, surely he must be interested to find out whether his position and his party's position was accurate and correct, and therefore he should have asked the representors some questions himself. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, a Member of Parliament went to the clinics three times and he was charged $16 each time. He suspected the doctors made $8 per visit. The Government clinic charges $10. So he came to the conclusion that there was hardly any subsidy at all. The Member came to Parliament and made a speech. His New Democrat published that it was hardly subsidised at all, and based on his assumption, based on agak agak, the Member was not only wrong but he was trying to mislead Parliament and obviously trying to mislead the public. I think that was the point he asked. I think he had just told us very clearly that he had tried and made attempts before, based on agak agak. How can Mr Ling tell us in this House today that he is not trying to mislead Parliament and the public? 

  Mr Ling How Dong: They go to the market place, check --- 

  hoiyung: Have you finished, Mr Ling? 

  hoiyung: From what I know, normally the Department of Statistics, after they have done a sample survey to date, would compare with the previous survey. They do not agak agak that they have made $8 profit. How can you use that as a basis to come to the conclusion, as the Chairman of SDP, that health care cost was hardly susbsidised? That is what you told us earlier. I wonder whether the Member would like to clarify how he arrived at $8. It took more than agak agak. I do not know. Would he like to reply? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I cannot clarify, verify or ask the doctor or during the Select Committee meeting. Anyway, Sir, may I be allowed to speak in Malay so that I do not have to engage in a direct debate with Mr Ling? 

  Encik Mohamad Maidin: Sir, it all started exactly seven months ago when a very serious allegation was made by Mr Ling and his Party. Because it was a very serious allegation, we went through all this process of forming a Select Committee and adopting the Report, and all the way through there was clear and indisputable evidence that there was Government subsidy and up to 80% for C class wards and many others. But the sad thing is today we hear that because of this baseless allegation, and because Mr Ling does not understand the meaning of "subsidy", the Government and Parliament had to spend up to half a million dollars just to clarify and make sure that the public is aware that the allegation is not only wrong, but based on very funny and unbelievable reasoning. We went through the entire process, many hours of work, planning, thinking, preparing from up to eight meetings from 17th May to 24th September, and another session today. Altogether 10 Members of Parliament were involved, which include the Speaker, two Ministers and one Senior Minister of State. On top of that, officials from the Ministry of Health, Auditor-General's Office, Singapore Medical Association and many others, even members of the public, were involved. We sought their views because this issue is of great public interest. There were nine submissions and finally this 620-page Report of the Select Committee. 

    Sir, it started as an allegation, a serious one, made in this House that health care cost in Singapore was hardly subsidised. In the end, we found out Mr Ling did not understand the word "subsidy" and had his own way of interpreting and defining the word "subsidy". 

    Sir, I think the Select Committee had been very kind in saying that had we found out earlier or had Mr Ling earlier clarified that he had a different definition of the word "subsidy", we need not go through all this. I do not believe Mr Ling does not understand the word "subsidy". I think he had done so purposely to throw new light, to twist along the way, and 

  Encik Mohamad Maidin: They were not even lawyers. Even the bomohs understand the word "subsidy". Sir, in the past, the Member for Bukit Gombak had used the word "subsidy" many times without any special meaning, without any new interpretation to the word. And finally when it came to this, he changed and tried to side-step the main issue. 

    Sir, I suspect that the whole idea of accusing the Government, of trying to undermine the system and the civil service over this issue was the fact that there was rumour sometime earlier this year about a possible general election in 1996. So based on what had happened, I suspect that Mr Ling and his party have tried to mislead not only Parliament, but the people of Singapore, by way of discrediting the Government and trying to make capital gains through this exercise. 

    Sir, I think Mr Ling and his party suspected that Singaporeans could easily be misled, because of the way they change facts and figures. Now these proceedings of the Select Committee help me to understand why more than two years ago, the Secretary-General of the SDP published a book Dare to Change, because they dare to change many official figures, whether it is the health care report or any other thing, in order to mislead the public. This came out during the proceedings of the Select Committee. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I remember I had engaged Mr Ling before in a debate when he made some accusations about health care in Singapore. Maybe we should refer to Hansard and check. By the way, Sir, I would like to clarify. When he spoke about subsidy in 1992, did he have the same meaning then and now? Or was it different then and now? Did he have a different definition or the same? Because he never said, before the end of the Select Committee hearing, that he had a completely different meaning for "subsidy". 

  hoiyung: Sir, raising an issue is not the same as when Mr Ling is asking a question. Raising an issue is not the same as changing facts and figures in 

  hoiyung: I am referring to SDP, Sir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, as I have explained, you go to a clinic, pay $16 bill, you agak-agak $8 profit. You are misleading the public, Mr Ling. And you are doing it today. 

    Secondly, in 1995, the Government's subsidy for class C patients per day in the public hospitals, including Tan Tock Seng Hospital mentioned by Mr Ling just now, was between 59% and 82% of the daily average cost. For B2 patients, the daily subsidy was between 62% and 73% of the daily average cost, much higher than the subsidy given to the A class and B1 class patients, as shown in Table 5. 

    In my view, when we want to doubt or negate any matter, we must have sufficient grounds and evidence to prove our argument, but not to fabricate data or to make use of specious arguments to deceive oneself as well as others. I agree with Mr Maidin that we do not wish to have agak-agak MPs, neither do we like to have blur-blur MPs. The SDP had, on several occasions, made use of the erroneous figure of 5% instead of the 25% to represent the Government's health expenditure in terms of the total Government expenditure, in order to discredit the Government, and then claimed that it was a "typographical error". It is more than that. It cannot be simply dismissed as a typing error, as claimed by Dr Chee, to cover up at the last moment. Personally, I feel that this is similar to the fallacious argument of baima fei ma [ ] (a white horse is not a horse) popularly used in ancient China. The SDP consistently uses this sophist tactic to mislead the people, in order to achieve its political objective. 

    Sophism is very famous in China. I have here a book entitled "Complete Book on Sophism" which sets out more than 500 tricks in sophism. The sophist tricks used by the SDP are, according to my reckoning, not more than 10 types. Let me illustrate how the representatives of SDP had made use of some of the tricks mentioned in this book during the public hearings of the Select Committee and in the statements issued by the Party, in attempts to conceal the truth and distort the facts, in order to mislead Parliament, and even the public. 

    First, let me look at the Chapter on Sham. According to this Book, people who deploy this tactic generally make use of specious reasoning, just like what Mr Ling did just now. For example, the book says, 

 "Water can drown people. People who practise sophism will tell you that since water can drown people, the water in a tea cup can also drown people." Such specious reasoning may sound seemingly logical, but it is in fact a very irresponsible argument to deceive others. Another argument is that anyone who intentionally kills another person shall be sentenced to death. The act of execution is also intentional killing. Therefore, the executioner should also be sentenced to death. This type of sophism is ridiculous and irresponsible. Yet, the SDP has been using them over and over again, at the public hearings of Parliament, at election rallies, and in the SDP's party organ. Their purpose is to create a sham to mislead people. For example, in the recent public hearings of the Select Committee on Health Care Subsidy, the SDP, in order to make people believe what they said in the past that "people in Singapore can die but cannot afford to be sick", they persistently argued that the health care cost in Singapore was hardly subsidised at all by the Government, and that the people could not afford the medical expenses in Singapore, in order to gain political capital. 

    The SDP also likes to use another trick in sophism known as touliang-huanzhu [ ] (steal the beams and pillars and replace them with rotten timber) as 

 described in page 87 of this book. In other words, it is to perpetrate a fraud. The book says people who use this trick would consciously or unconsciously use one concept to replace another concept in the process of arguing and reasoning. Let us look at how the SDP "steals the beams and changes the pillars". When Dr Chee Soon Juan and the representatives of SDP talked about the national health expenditure as a percentage of the GDP, they used the same tactic. They gave the figure as 0.8% and claimed that they were quoting from a figure given by NMP Dr Soin. As a matter of fact, the figure quoted by Dr Soin referred to the net Government health expenditure as a percentage of the GDP, as the actual figure of the national health expenditure as a percentage of the GDP is 3.1%. Substituting 3.1% by 0.8% is a classic example of "stealing the beams and changing the pillars" to confuse the people. 

    There is another example in the book to help us understand how the SDP made use of a sophist trick of "stealing the beams and changing the pillars". It says, a customer went to a coffee shop and asked the shopkeeper for a chashao bao (steamed pork bun). Before he paid for it, the customer said that he would like to exchange the bao for a cup of coffee. After drinking the coffee, he wanted to go off without paying for the coffee. The shopkeeper asked him for the money, but he said, "I traded a bao for the coffee." The shopkeeper said, "But you did not pay for the bao either" He replied, "I did not eat your chashao bao, why should I pay you for it." I think, by listening to Mr Ling this afternoon, and all that was being said by the representatives of the SDP, you will find that they are more or less the same as described in the book. 

    Dr Chee and the SDP are very fond of the trick known as moxuyou [ ] (equivocation) as described on page 51 of this "Complete Book on Sophism". The book says, moxuyou means "maybe there is". "Maybe there is" does not mean "there is". It cannot be taken as conclusive evidence to form a basis for argument. If one uses "maybe there is" as a basis to assert his argument to be true, then that is truly sophism. From 25% it can be 

    In their argument, they are also fond of using the trick of zhi lu wei ma [ ] (calling a stag a horse). Like what he said just now, "I believe it is right, but whether you believe it or not is another matter." "If I, Ling How Doong, a Member of Parliament, believe that this horse is a stag, you do not believe it is a stag but believe that it is a horse, then it is your business. However, I, Ling How Doong, a Member of Parliament believe that it is a stag." According to page 124 of the book, "calling a stag a horse" means to deliberately misrepresent, confusing right and wrong, confounding black and white - normally referring to improper or unjust words and deeds. 

    Jiewai Sheng Zhi [ ] (digression) is another sophist trick frequently used by the SDP. Please refer to page 131 of this book. The basic characteristic of this trick is to create a lot of side issues to evade the main issues in order to confuse and mislead people. An issue which was originally clear and defined is brought to an awful mess of confusion through the introduction of many irrelevant side issues. Just now, Mr Ling said that the sky was blue and whether you believed it or not was not his business. I immediately turned to this book, and on page 54, it was there. A question was posed, " Chang'an (the capital of China in the Han and Tang Dynasties) or the sun, which is farther away from us?" The answer was Chang'an. Because, I could see the sun but I could not see Chang'an. So, Mr Ling can tell you, "When I stand in the middle of the road, I could see the sun but I could not see Johor Baru. Therefore, Johor Baru is surely farther than the sun." Just now, he said the sky was blue. Later on, he may stand up and say he can see 12 suns above the roof of Parliament House (referring to12 spot lights above the roof of Parliament House.). Such digression or sophist argument is irrational, unreasonable, and arbitrary. 

    The SDP representatives thought that their ways of arguing would be appreciated by the people of Singapore. They thought they were very clever in the way they argued. In fact, this is a cunning and irresponsible way of arguing. If the people of Singapore want to know more about sophism, episodes of sophism which are more interesting than the tricks used by the SDP, they should read this book. They can learn about a very famous sophist by the name of Zheng Xi, in the time of the Warring States in China, 560 B.C. The tricks used by the SDP are far inferior to the tactics mentioned in the book. It is a far cry from what was mentioned in this book! 

    I am very disappointed with the Member for Bukit Gombak, Mr Ling, for repeatedly going back on his word, during the public hearings of the Select Committee. First, he admitted and then denied that the Government had subsidised on medical cost in Singapore. He said that the money used by the Government on the people's health care cost came from taxpayers' money and therefore could not be known as subsidy. That the Government had subsidised is an undeniable fact. The Government's money is the people's money. The Government is just a trustee of the people's money. 

    We all know that Singapore is a small country with no natural resources, and is therefore very vulnerable. Mr Ling said that the people in Brunei do not have to pay income tax. But, he forgot to mention that Brunei has a lot of oil underneath its soil. I think if Singapore has a lot of oil, then we can also consider doing so. But, the fact is, Singapore has no oil, no natural resources, no water. So, without a good Government and a group of responsible and upright political leaders, to effectively look after the people's money, if there is a problem in the way the Government manages the people's finances resulting in massive unemployment, people being unable to earn a living, cannot afford to purchase a HDB flat, then whose responsibility is it? Are you saying that it is the fault of the people? 

    Therefore, a responsible Government will surely take great care and exercise prudence in using the people's money or subsidising them. I do not know whether it has occurred to Mr Ling and the representatives of SDP that they have already indirectly wasted a lot of our people's money. Take a look at this very thick blue book - the Select Committee Report. Together with the proceedings of the public hearings, as the Minister has said, some few hundred thousand dollars had been wasted. Just imagine, the manpower and resources involved before, during and after the public hearings! If we could save on this, we could have helped how many poor people in Singapore! The Minister and senior officials of the Ministry of Health could have made use of their time in a better way to plan and work towards better health care services for Singapore in future, to the benefit of the people. 

    As Members of Parliament, we have the responsibility to censure such irresponsible behaviour, particularly the use of such cunning specious arguments to distort the facts in order to mislead Parliament and the public. As the Minister for Health, BG George Yeo, had said, Parliament should never be turned into an arena for child-play. The function of democracy depends upon Parliament and Parliament should therefore be accorded the highest dignity and respect from the people. Facts speak louder than words. The SDP's attempt to twist the facts to mislead the people will not be accepted by the people of Singapore. 

    Let me also reiterate that the second part of the motion to regret Mr Ling's and SDP's attempt to mislead Parliament and members of the public should exclude the charges I have made in the complaint to the Speaker regarding the behaviour of the four SDP representors when they appeared before the Select Committee because, as Mr Ling said, they would be, in a sense, sub judice and something that we should be mindful of. 

    The fact that health care costs in Singapore are heavily subsidised is a matter of fact. It should really not surprise us in this House because every year during the budget debates we vote hundreds of millions of dollars for this purpose. If there were no health care subsidy, then where did all the money go to? But because allegations were made, and Mr Ling and the SDP refused to retract those allegations despite data provided to this House, and in addition, cast aspersions on the data, we had to have a Select Committee and this debate. But I hope we can get it behind us so that all of us can go back to our jobs, the officials, doctors, nurses, making sure that we provide 

    It does not mean that the more we subsidise the better. We are proud that we have a good health care system. We are proud that those who cannot afford health care at full cost are subsidised. We are proud of our polyclinics. We are proud of our B2 and C class wards. But it is not our objective to have the polyclinics take over the primary health care sector. They provide only about 20% of the primary health care sector. They perform a specific purpose. They look after those in the lower socio-economic classes in Singapore. They do a good job. That is fine. The rest of us, including Mr Ling, we go to see GPs who can be just downstairs or nearby, and they provide a very good service. The market operates on supply and demand and prices are set by the market. That is a good system. So it does not mean that while we debate that health care in Singapore is indeed heavily subsidised, we are saying that the more health care subsidy the better. Not at all. Indeed, in many countries, too much health care subsidy or health care subsidy wrongly applied, can bring the whole system down, which is why we try to build in as many safeguards as possible into our system in Singapore to ensure that the subsidies go to those who need them; that there is little moral hazard and that those who can afford to pay should bear a share of the burden. That is very important. 

    The second limb is to regret the attempt by the SDP and Mr Ling to mislead us and members of the public. I moved this second limb without any pleasure, not to gloat, but because it is wrong to exploit public concern for narrow political purposes. Mr Ling said that he was only offering opinions. He never tried to mislead us. But even today, in this debate, he tried to mislead us repeatedly. He talked at length about errors in the bills produced by Tan Tock Seng Hospital. But until I pressed him, he conveniently left out the fact that whatever the error, it did not affect the amount which the patient had to pay, not Sunny Kow, not any other patient who received an error in his bill. Even after correction, those patients who were in the C class wards were subsidised 86%. We never claimed in this House or anywhere else that we subsidised C class patients by more than 80%, which we could have. But we did not. It is not something for us to exploit politically. But it was a material fact which Mr Ling conveniently chose not to mention until I asked him. He talked about the bed charges at Mount Alvernia Hospital and how cheap they were relative to bed charges in public hospitals. I do not know how Mount Alvernia Hospital calculates its bed charges, whether in fact it deliberately charges certain items lower than cost as loss leaders. But it does not matter. What matters at the end of the day is how much the patient has to pay. 

 There was no doubt whatsoever that for all disease conditions, Singaporeans pay far less, even A class wards, in public hospitals than in private hospitals. Those tables are in the Report from the Select Committee to you. Again, Mr Ling did not mention it. He only talked about bed charges. Of course, he presents it in a very disarming way. He says, "Oh, my approach is a simplistic one. I see the doctor, GP, three times, $16. So do not blame me if I jump to the wrong conclusion." It may be artfully disarming, it may have even created some mirth, provided some entertainment, but I think it is more than that. I think in that selective suppression of relevant data, Mr Ling was trying to mislead us. Of course, he is very good at word games, at talking about how in his earlier speeches to this House he used words like "I suspect", "I was not sure", "I thought". Then he said opinions cannot mislead. 

    In short, the answer to Mr Low is that where it is possible for us to rebuild, instead of upgrade, the Government will consider to do so. But in the main, for the reasons I have explained earlier, the upgrading programme is still the better way to proceed. 

  hoiyung: Sir, those blocks which were demolished in the earlier years, and which we continue to demolish today, were the 1- and 2-room rental flats. Singaporeans, in case Mr Chiam does not know, have grown richer. They are not staying in 1- and 2-room rental flats any more. Many of our 1- and 2-room blocks of flats have very high vacancy rates. We do not demolish rental flats haphazardly. We have a rule which says that rental flats in an area will be demolished if the vacancy reaches above a certain percentage. So we are just adjusting to the demand pattern of Singaporeans. As they grow richer, they want to buy bigger flats. The rental flats fall vacant. So we relocate them and we knock down the old rental flats. When we knock down the old rental flats, we create some land available. So we rebuild so that Singaporeans can 

    I disagree at this point that the age, as suggested by the Member for Potong Pasir, should be raised to 25 years old, because I think there must be a certain bar for such consideration. If we were to raise it to 25 years old, then what about 30? Are you saying that those who are 30 years old are not repentant and that they are not rehabilitative? So I would stick to the age of 16 to 21 years. 

    With regard to Mr Chiam's two points, first, I would like to clarify that only offenders who are guilty or who have been convicted of serious offences are denied probation, ie, they are convicted and sentenced with a mandatory minimum sentence and therefore they are denied probation. Sir, these are for very serious offences, like rape, robbery, being part of a syndicate in extortion, and so on. For the other lesser offences they are still eligible for probation. 

    Mr Chiam has mentioned that he has read the Hansard with regard to the amendment to the Probation of Offenders Act in 1984. The Minister at that time, Mr Chua Sian Chin, had stipulated the six categories of offences which carry mandatory minimum sentences. 

  hoiyung: If Mr Low disagrees, can he state his position on it? Either the person is responsible or not responsible. Is he saying that a person is not responsible for his own medical condition? 

  hoiyung: Am I correct to understand from Mr Low that he agrees that if a person can afford to pay he should be responsible enough to pay for his own medical bill to look after himself? 

  hoiyung: When I was listening to Mr Low just now, I was also equally confused. I am glad that he has thrown a little bit of light. But I think there is still quite a bit of darkness in front of me. Is he saying that even when a person has taken all the necessary efforts, for example, he has paid attention to all our healthy lifestyle messages, exercise everyday, and he still falls sick, if that person can afford to pay his own medical bills, the Government should still intervene to pay his bills for him? 

  hoiyung: I agree with Mr Low that when a person is sick, sometimes it is not because of his own responsibility. 

    Yesterday, in this House, Mr Chiam said that South Korea did better than us. In what respect? One set of statistics does not tell a story, but a group of them might. The OECD has decided that these four indices - strong growth, low inflation, low unemployment and a "sound" balance of payments - together reflect a country's strength and you can see that Singapore is doing very well. But people are saying that the diamond is too big now and let us cut it and share it around. I say it is nonsense. We know that the price of diamond is not proportional to its weight. The price of diamond is exponential to its weight. If you have got a 10-carat diamond it is worth more than 10 1-carat diamonds. So why split it? Keep it. 

    Yesterday in this House, Mr Ling made a song and dance about the Government not doing enough, not helping the poor enough. I say a government, such as the PAP that has done as much to help the poor, need never be apologetic about its policies. 

    Mr Ling said that we are not doing enough for education, we must help them more. I say, it is rubbish. 

  Mr Ho Peng Kee (Sembawang GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, yesterday the Member for Bukit Gombak made several points in this House. The Minister for National Development has effectively debunked his main point - the upgrading of older HDB estates. There are other points deserving of rejoinders. However, in view of the time factor, I will confine myself to only one point. In doing this, it is not my intention at all to put the hon. Member down. It is just that I feel Singaporeans deserve the benefit of another viewpoint. 

    Sir, this relates to his call for more subsidies. In my assessment, the Government is not against subsidies as such. It is a question of: for what, how much, and why? What is anathema to the Government is the development of a subsidy mentality, one that undermines the will to work, and worse still, provoke a slide down the slippery slope into a crutch situation. In appropriate areas, subsidies have indeed been given, and heavy ones too. Education, health, basic housing -- three vital areas of people investment as opposed to areas of consumption. I hope Singaporeans will know and appreciate this. Mr Ling himself agrees to this approach. 

    The Member for Bukit Gombak, the Opposition Member, yesterday asked how much reserves must we accumulate? My regard for him would have been notched up several rungs if hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, thank you for allowing me to join my colleagues in this budget debate. 

    Sir, the Singapore economy grew by 6.7% in 1991, 1.6% lower than in 1990. The annual growth rate for 1992 is estimated to be even lower. It is therefore not surprising to see the budget interpreted by Members as cautious, balanced and some describe it as a budget for continuity. Some critics, of course, are quick to point out and blame the Government for what they perceive as a failure to create a higher growth. The hon. Member for Potong Pasir even rhetorically asked: if South Korea is able to achieve 8.6% growth, why not Singapore? 

 Mr Chiam claimed that the increase in foreign worker levy has led to higher business costs. A moment ago, my colleague, Mr Yatiman Yusof, has stoutly defended the need for a strict and firm foreign worker policy. Sir, let me now take a few moments to reiterate why we need to control the foreign worker population before I address the "how". 

    Moreover, Sir, if we do not control and regulate the influx of foreign workers, the lower wages of the foreign workers will certainly drive down and depress the wages of our own Singaporean workers. The earning power and standard of living of ordinary Singaporeans will then be adversely affected. The interests of Singaporeans must always come first. Mr Chiam has said that the increase in foreign workers levy led to an increase in business cost. But, Sir, we have not increased the foreign workers levy with the exception of the levy for the unskilled workers in the construction industry. The increase of $50 for the unskilled construction workers was necessary to slow down the intake of unskilled workers in this sector. The higher levy only applies to unskilled foreign workers. Contractors who employ skilled foreign workers continue to pay the low levy of $250 per month. 

    Yesterday, the Members of the Opposition, Mr Ling and Mr Chiam, said that we should increase our subsidies and move towards a system which provides for more social welfare. Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to take this opportunity to express my views on this. 

  Mr Speaker: Yes, Mr Chiam. What is it? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, that is not a point of order. 

  hoiyung: That is not a point of order, Mr Chiam. You may continue, Mr Choo. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Chiam has once again misunderstood me. Last year, he misunderstood me. The year before, he also misunderstood me. He does not have enough sense of humour. 

 listen to me. I am saying that what I saw were non-Singaporean Indians, and not Indian compatriots of Singapore. Under those circumstances, when you drive past that area, their reaction and behaviour clearly tell you they are not Singaporean Indians. If the Member has a chance, please take a drive to our Little India and see things for himself. Then, he will surely feel the same way that I did - that if we have too many foreign labourers in Singapore, will it not have a certain amount of effect on the social security and stability of Singapore? The answer is in the positive! If the foreign workers cause a rebellion in Singapore, ie, different foreign workers with different skin colours start a rebellion, then I believe it may most likely cause some unrest among the various races of the local people in Singapore. Perhaps Mr Chiam may hold a different view. But, we must always think of the worst scenario situation that may happen, when we plan our future. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam yesterday quoted the 8.6% economic growth of South Korea in 1991 and commented that it did better than Singapore despite its internal political problems. The truth is that South Korea's growth last year was led by strong domestic demand, in particular consumption and construction. Its economy continues to suffer from structural problems such as high inflation, weakening competitiveness of exports and a widening trade deficit. Its trade deficit rose to a record high of US$9.7 billion, double that of its 1990 figure. And its inflation rate for 1991 was 9.7%, the highest in 10 years. The South Korean Government is now trying to correct these problems. Does Mr Chiam want us to follow South Korea? And if he thinks that South Korea is a better place than Singapore, perhaps he may want to consider emigrating there. 

  Dr John Chen Seow Phun: And not like what Mr Chiam has described as "mercenary". He demeans it by what he says. I wonder whether he is a reservist. But if he is opposed to the tax relief, then perhaps the Minister for Defence would like to consider not extending it to the reservists in Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, Mr Chiam has said that the tax relief is too small, which does suggest that if it were bigger he would have given it his full support. Yet, at the same time, he says that we should not give any monetary reward, any monetary recognition, because in so doing, we make mercenaries out of our reservists. Is that right? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam may not be aware of the fact that we are already making allowances of all sorts to our reservists. We give the Key Appointment Holders a Key Appointment Holder's allowance. For those in command, we also have a command allowance. For others, we have a service allowance. And for all the reservists, we have a make-up pay. Is Mr Chiam therefore suggesting that we take away all these allowances because money is involved? 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, Mr Chiam is entitled to his point of view. What we have done is to structure the recognition for the 

 reservists' contributions in a manner that expresses the nation's appreciation. It is a symbolic gesture. The amount of money is a matter of opinion, whether it is large or otherwise. But giving recognition through a monetary system need not necessarily make mercenaries out of our people. Sir, mercenaries are professional soldiers who fight in foreign armies, not our own citizens being paid or given monetary recognition. Indeed, armies all over the world pay their soldiers. That does not make all the soldiers of the world mercenaries. We give allowances to our national servicemen. Is Mr Chiam therefore saying that we should not do that? 

    Sir, Dr John Chen suggests that, because Mr Chiam said that he is not in favour of this system, we should not make the tax relief available to reservists in Potong Pasir. I do not think we should do that. I do not believe that Mr Chiam speaks for the reservists in Potong Pasir. But if there should be any reservist in Potong Pasir who shares Mr Chiam's point of view, he can easily --- 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: If Mr Chiam would just let me finish the sentence. 

  Mr Speaker: All right, Mr Chiam, you can seek your clarification later. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: If any reservist in Potong Pasir shares Mr Chiam's point of view and thinks that recognition through a monetary system is not appropriate, he can very easily opt out of it next year by not making a claim. It is as simple as that. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you making a speech, or are you seeking clarification? 

  hoiyung: Sir, obviously, Mr Chiam did not hear what I said. I said that I do not agree with Dr John Chen not to make that tax relief available to all reservists in Potong Pasir. But if you speak on behalf of them, and indeed if there are reservists who believe exactly as you do, which I think will be an exceedingly small number, then as I said, they can easily exercise their right not to make the claim next year. 

    Sir, I think we have spent enough time on Mr Chiam. We will move on. Mr Ho Peng Kee has suggested that we should consider not making available the tax relief for those who have completed their reservist training and also for those who are not actively in reserve. This was a distinct possibility which we looked at during the consideration of this proposal made by RECORD. What that means is that we will only be making a tax relief available for 13 years, because most of the reservists serve a 13-year in-camp training cycle, and after that they will not enjoy any tax relief at all. 

  hoiyung: Sir, time is moving on. The Government is the representative of the people. We operate a democracy, in case Mr Chiam is not aware of it. We were elected by the people, to represent the people, and the Government acts on behalf of the people. And as I said earlier, the Government reflects the nation's, the people's gratitude and appreciation to the reservists for their sacrifice and contribution. Mr Chiam repeats what I have said, again and again. 

    Members were generally supportive of the Budget. Some, nevertheless, felt that more could be done to help businessmen in the face of an expected economic slowdown. Others, like Mr Chiam, even believe that the slowdown was brought about by Government-induced cost increases. I will respond to these concerns and try to correct the misconceptions. 

    A few Members have questioned whether a lower economic growth rate would necessarily result from a maturing economy. The Member for Potong Pasir 

    I will now touch on the level of reserves and their usage. I was pleasantly surprised to note that Mr Chiam, Mr Ling and Mr Cheo have come out firmly against the squandering of our reserves. It is gratifying that they recognise the need for a country, like Singapore, to maintain adequate reserves, and I hope that this means that they recognise the wisdom of Government's policies and will vote in support of the Government's Budget later on. 

    However, both Mr Chiam and Mr Ling have also said that they are strongly opposed to the Government's continued accumulation of substantial surpluses year after year, with the implication that this has only been achieved through taxing the people heavily and by not spending sufficiently on vital areas, such as education, culture and the arts. They have also demanded that Government declares its target level of reserves, again with the implication that without this, there will be no upper bound to the Government's appetite for reserves accumulation, and that this can only come from squeezing the people for increased taxes. I will respond to both these statements and, in the process, I hope that I will be able to clear up some misconceptions. 

    I will now turn to the question of the annual budget surpluses, which Mr Chiam and Mr Ling imply, have been achieved through increases in taxation and through insufficient spending on essential areas 

 such as education. The facts contradict these contentions. On taxation, corporate taxes have been cut from 40% in 1987 to the just announced 30%, and for personal income tax the top marginal rate has been reduced to 33% since 1978. The only increases in Government levies have been in areas where prices have been used as the mechanism to allocate scarce resources, such as foreign labour and cars. And I hope that Mr Chiam and Mr Ling are not suggesting that we should resort to a process of pure allocation as the preferred route in order to avoid the levies. Such an alternative has been used in Communist countries and the outcome has always been spectacular inequities and general economic chaos. I would also remind Mr Chiam and Mr Ling that much of the revenues generated from the levies are now used to fund both educational and social programmes. 

    The Member for Bukit Gombak is supportive of the Government's emphasis on education. He has, however, expressed concern that Government has not invested sufficiently in it. I should point out that Government will be spending $2.78 billion on formal education in fiscal year 1992. This amounts to 4.2% of GDP, which is substantially higher than that in recent years. In addition, a sum of $1 billion has been provided to the Education Endowment Fund. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (3), Mr Chiam. ``Guillotine'' time is at 1.20 pm. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, would you like to give time for the Prime Minister to reply? I suggest that for the other point you could submit a question for another sitting. 

  hoiyung: Sir, there is no problem whatsoever, if we can have a practical solution. As far as I know, I do not think there is any allegation of fraudulent practices. There is a practical problem, because if you have a GRC with four candidates on one side, another four candidates on the other side, altogether there will be eight candidates, and eight election agents may have to follow in the bus for each GRC contested. But, in principle, there should be no objection. If you want to check, we have no worry whatsoever, because we run a clean system. I would put this to the Elections Office to see whether they can accommodate Mr Chiam's request. 

  hoiyung: Sir, allow me to make one brief observation before I withdraw my amendment. I remember last year, SDP MPs failed to move any cut in the Committee of Supply. This year, I have checked through the Order Paper Supplement, and I observe hoiyung: Amendment No. (2), Mr Chew Heng Ching. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I will be very happy to supply the data when Mr Low tables a question, because I do not have the data now. But when he was talking about affordability, I would imagine that people who have difficulties paying their bills, who are from the lower-income group, would be people who are using the Class C wards. They will not be people who will be using the Class A wards. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if Mr Low had read the White Paper carefully, it is inside there. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Sir, Mr Chiam will have more time to speak tomorrow. I beg to move, 

    On 27th August 1996, Mr Speaker, Sir, you informed this House that you had received a letter from the Minister for Health complaining against four representors of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) for acting in contempt of Parliament by fabricating data, presenting false or untrue documents in their written submission of 12th April 1996 with intent to deceive the Select Committee on Verification of Health Care Subsidy of Government Polyclinics and Public Hospitals. These four representors had committed further contempt when they gave oral evidence before the Select Committee by lying, committing perjury, prevaricating and misconducting themselves. 

    Some may argue that the PAP uses the Committee of Privileges as a political weapon against its opponents. These people should note the fact that the Member for Potong Pasir, who has been in this House for more than a decade, has never been the subject of a Committee of Privileges hearing. It is a person's conduct, not his or her political affiliation, which determines whether he or she appears before the Committee of Privileges. 

    Sad to say, the four SDP representors - Chee Soon Juan, Wong Hong Toy, S Kunalen and Kwan Yue Keng - disgracefully misconducted themselves during the Select Committee hearings on Health Care Subsidies. The proceedings in the Select Committee and the Committee of Privileges have exposed the true character of these SDP members whom, I believe, also aspire to become Members of this Chamber. In fact, all, except Kunalen, have contested in elections before and lost. Kunalen too would want to try his luck in the coming elections. How could these aspirants mock the proceedings of the Select Committee and yet eagerly want to be Members of this august Chamber? 

    How did Chee Soon Juan and the other SDP research team members show contempt of Parliament? The Committee of Privileges Report sets out clearly how the four SDP representors are guilty of contempt of Parliament, how they have perjured themselves, how they have lied, how they have prevaricated and misconducted themselves before the Select Committee and the Committee of Privileges. 

    Sir, let me briefly highlight some of these misdeeds. First, Chee Soon Juan deliberately fabricated data and combined figures from different sources to present false pictures of Singapore's national and Government health expenditures with intent to deceive the Select Committee. Second, when questioned about these inconsistencies during the Select Committee hearing, neither Chee nor any of the other SDP members admitted their errors, nor did they tell the truth, even though they all affirmed to speak the truth. Instead, they told half-truths, gave evasive answers and misconducted themselves. Two of them even committed perjury before the Select Committee and the Committee of Privileges. During the Committee of Privileges hearings, such evasion and prevarication continued. 

    Let me talk about Chee Soon Juan. Chee Soon Juan's behaviour was most illustrative. When pressed on the obvious contradictions between the SDP team's statements during the Select Committee hearing, and its written defence for the Committee of Privileges hearing, Chee Soon Juan based his "explanations" on a strangely convenient coincidence of typographical errors, confusion and selective amnesia. Or he simply stubbornly stood his ground even though he was wrong, and his answers contradicted themselves. 

 taping a conversation he was having with Dr Vasoo, he flatly denied it, claiming that the tape recording was for his class, even though the tape recorder was still running and this part of the exchange was captured on tape. I managed to get a copy of that transcript from Dr Vasoo. Let me read this out. This was a conversation, I believe, which took place in 1992 before Dr Chee put himself up as a candidate of the SDP. I think he went to tell Dr Vasoo that he was going to be a candidate. So he held a tape recorder in his hand, probably outside the room, and said "testing, testing" to make sure that it worked. Then he went into the room and the process of telling Dr Vasoo what he wanted to do and Dr Vasoo's advice to him. And this is how it goes from the start of the conversation: 

    Sir, Dr Chee Soon Juan's propensity to speak the untruth knows no bounds. He does not seem to be a man of principle, honour or courage. You remember, in 1992, he also said, "I have a good brain and a strong heart" and that was what he wanted Singaporeans to believe him to be. A courageous man is not afraid of admitting his mistakes. It is no wonder that even his own SDP members and collaborators have been disappointed by his behaviour. 

    Towards the end of his session with the Committee of Privileges, Kwan Yue Keng, the SDP Assistant Secretary-General, admitted that he felt "let down" when he realised that errors had been made in the submission to the Select Committee, and that Chee Soon Juan had chosen to explain them away, rather than acknowledging them. Similarly, S Kunalen also said that there was no justification to perpetuate a wrong method in calculating the "25%", even if Chee had cited someone else's study. 

    I would say to Kwan Yue Keng and the other SDP leaders that Chee Soon Juan's behaviour should not be surprising. Indeed, Chee Soon Juan's whole performance and conduct during the Committee of Privileges hearings merely exposed his true character. 

    For example, Chee Soon Juan had stated in the SDP's written submission that the Singapore Government's share of total health expenditure had fallen from 40% in 1970 to just 5% in 1990. When pressed to explain how he derived this figure, he claimed that when he calculated the original figure of "25%" for his book called Dare to Change, somehow a "typo error" had resulted in the number "2" 

    Sir, the same written submission from the SDP had another chart showing the expenditure on health care as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for various countries as follows: 13% for the United States of America, 9% for the OECD countries and 7% for Japan. Chee Soon Juan had picked these figures knowing that they showed total health spending (which means the Government and private sector) as a percentage of GDP. By contrast, he cited the Singapore's figure to be only "0.8%", which refers to only Government expenditure on health as a percentage of GDP. If Chee Soon Juan had wanted a true and accurate comparison of national health 

    Members may remember that after Dare To Change was launched in May 1994, the SDP formally adopted it in July 1994as the Party's manifesto and its "vision" for a better Singapore. According to a Business Times report, 1st July 1994, the SDP had even planned to lead a delegation to Hong Kong to launch this manifesto, contained in this book Dare To Change. But in the course of the Committee of Privileges hearing, Chee Soon Juan dismissed it as "actually a book written more as a popular reading", which therefore could not be expected to be accurate in its content. A Party Manifesto reduced to a book for popular reading. This is certainly a significant revelation and speaks volumes of the SDP. After all the hype about the book being the SDP's manifesto which proclaimed its vision for Singapore, it has been reduced to nothing but fiction! I understand that some bookshops placed Dare To Change on the shelves under the "Singapore Collection". Perhaps, after Chee Soon Juan's remarkable revelation, these bookshops should reconsider reshelving this book under another category, "Fiction". 

    Now I come to Wong Hong Toy. After Chee Soon Juan, the next most culpable of the SDP team is the current SDP Vice-Chairman, Wong Hong Toy. 

    Mind you, Wong Hong Toy is not a political novice who is easily swayed or duped. On the contrary, he is a veteran opposition figure, having served in the Workers' Party as Chairman in the 1970s and 1980s. While he was in the Workers' Party, he was also considered to be a close aide of J. B. Jeyaretnam. They were charged in court together for false declaration, and fined $5,000 and imprisoned for a month. However, the two men fell out in 1987, when Wong Hong Toy joined the SDP in 1988. I wonder whether J. B. Jeyaretnam felt any sense of loss when such an assistant left him at that time. 

    There is also another interesting coincidence concerning Wong Hong Toy. When he was the Workers' Party Chairman, he had appeared before the Committee of Privileges in April 1987 over a complaint 

 against the Editor, Publisher and Printer of "The Hammer". Now, as Vice-Chairman of the SDP, he appeared yet again before the Committee of Privileges. Two appearances in two different political parties in the same position! Could he be a kind of talisman that the local Opposition parties would like to have? 

    On S Kunalen, as the head of the SDP research team, and as a lawyer who knew full well the seriousness of making submissions to Parliament, Kunalen was shockingly derelict in his duties. He claimed not to have been involved in the preparation of the written submission. He chose not to verify or question its contents. Indeed, Kunalen did not even understand the distinction between national and Government health expenditure, or the significance of the "0.8%" when referring to Government's health expenditure as a percentage of GDP. 

    As for Kwan Yue Keng, the Committee of Privileges think he had the smallest role to play in the whole matter. He was forthcoming during both the Select Committee and the Committee of Privileges hearings, and accepted responsibility for the contents of the written submission. What struck the Committee most was that of the four SDP representors, Kwan Yue Keng was the only one who claimed to understand the concept of honour. Indeed, Kwan Yue Keng stated that he felt, to quote him, "honour bound" to accept responsibility despite his relatively minor role in the preparation of the submission, as well as to admit an error as soon as it came to his attention. The Committee of Privileges were initially inclined to show leniency to Kwan Yue Keng as he seemed to have shown contrition, and admitted that he would have acted differently from Chee if he had had direct responsibility for the submission. However, the day following the Committee of Privileges hearing, after the press had reported Kwan Yue Keng saying that he felt let down by Chee Soon Juan, Kwan Yue Keng issued a press statement re-affirming his full confidence in the SDP research unit "under the leadership of Dr Chee Soon Juan". (Lianhe Zaobao, 26 October 1996) In other words, Kwan Yue Keng made a 180-degree about turn in his position barely 24 hours after appearing before the Committee of Privileges. What are we to make of the behaviour of this so-called self-proclaimed "honourable" man? What could have made such an honourable man commit such a dishonourable act? Was he acting on his own free will, and hence admitting that he actually has no honour? Or was he forced by others like his Secretary-General to act so dishonourably? Only Kwan Yue Keng knows, and if he is as honourable as he claims to be, then he should clarify this. 

    We have done the necessary biopsy. We have looked behind the facade of Chee Soon Juan and seen the real Chee Soon Juan. He is not the knight in shining armour, trying to save Singaporeans from years of PAP rule. He is, indeed, the knave, smiling in his business suit, trying to fool Singaporeans with his supposedly scholarly research and glib talk. We have seen him fabricate data and falsify documents with the sole purpose to mislead the Select Committee. In maintaining his deception, Chee Soon Juan has tried to argue that shoddy research, inaccurate and unverified data, and typo errors in the conduct of Parliamentary business were acceptable, or at the very least excusable, because he is "only human". He has no qualms about telling any tale to suit his objectives, and resorting to lies, half-truths and excuses of "human error" and selective lapses of memory rather than admitting his own mistakes even when he was confronted with them. Indeed, judging by the words and behaviour of the other three SDP members of the research team during the Select Committee on Health Care Subsidies and the Committee of Privileges hearings, Chee Soon Juan has even persuaded his SDP team to lie or prevaricate to cover up for him. 

    hoiyungasked them if they could postpone their leave for today, but they refused. What are they afraid of? Do they not have anything to say in defence of the deplorable behaviour of their SDP colleagues? By their absence today, are we not justified in concluding that they condone the contempt of Parliament committed by their fellow travellers? Or is their absence today of their own volition? Or have they been told by their Secretary-General not to come because their Secretary-General has no faith in their ability to speak up for him? Or are we to conclude that both of them could not refute the Committee of Privileges Report? Whatever is the reason or are the reasons for the absence of Mr Ling and Mr Cheo, Singaporeans now know what kind of leaders the SDP has. 

    There is no dispute that some of the figures presented by the SDP are inaccurate. The question that Members must ask themselves is whether the errors were innocent or deliberate. The fairest way of resolving this issue is to test the defences put up by the SDP team against undisputed facts and then determine whether, 

 in the light of these facts, the reasons advanced by the SDP for the errors are plausible. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, this is not a case where this House, or the public, only hears one side of the argument. It is a case where the record is available to everyone who is willing and interested to read it. The record is in the Select Committee Report and the Report of the Committee of Privileges where there is a verbatim transcript of the proceedings both before the Select Committee and the Committee of Privileges. And the fairest approach to the issue must be this - to discern from the two Reports what on any view must be the undisputed facts, without taking a view one way or the other about where the merits are, select the objective facts and then in relation to each of these facts test the explanations that were advanced by the SDP for the inaccuracies that were contained or found in their submission. Clearly, if there is some reasonable doubt that those errors could be innocent, having regard to those facts, then I think the benefit of the doubt must be given to them. But if this House, having regard to the explanation and contrasting it with the objective facts, comes to the view that on no view can those errors be innocent, then this House must come to only one conclusion and it is this: that the errors were deliberate. Let us examine the two claims. 

    The first major claim made by the SDP was that between 1970 and 1990, the Government share of total health expenditure fell from 40% to 5%. Chee explained to the Select Committee that the 5% for the year 1990 was a typographical error. He said that when he wrote Dare to Change in 1994, he did the calculation for 1990, and came to the figure 25%. But when he typed it, the "2" dropped, with the result that the figure became 5% for 1990 in Dare to Change. 

    The second main claim made by the SDP was that the amount of Government spending on health care as a percentage of GDP has been falling to the level of less than 1% compared to 7% for Japan, 13% for the US and an average of 9% for the OECD countries, and a chart accompanied this particular claim. Chee admitted that at least the figure for Singapore is incorrect. His defence, and he made this defence for the first time only at the Committee of Privileges hearing, was that there was a misunderstanding of the figures. Members must ask themselves whether, again, in the light of the undisputed objective facts, there is any substance to this defence of a misunderstanding. 

    The facts really speak for themselves. There is really only one conclusion. The SDP submission contained figures which 

    I am somewhat disappointed that Mr Ling and Mr Cheo are not here today. I was looking forward to having their version of what the proper inferences are to be drawn from the facts. This is the perfect forum. In fact, the entire process enables Members to stand up, look at the record, look at the findings and challenge those findings, impugn them if the findings are not satisfactory. Mr Ling and Mr Cheo would have had the opportunity of going through the facts and explain to Members that, having regard to those facts, the findings of the Committee of Privileges cannot be sound, cannot be supported because other inferences can be drawn which are entirely reasonable. But their absence, I think, entitles this House to draw the inference that Mr Ling and Mr Cheo who must be familiar with the Report of the Committee of Privileges are unable to find fault with it. 

    In my opinion, the Committee of Privileges has conducted a full and thorough investigation of the complaint for contempt of Parliament against the four SDP representors. The views of the Committee are objective and fair and its findings, convincing. 

    The Committee's findings are convincing. On the first key statement 1 and chart 1 in the SDP's written submission, the Committee's findings have established beyond any doubt that the figure of 25%, supposedly the Singapore Government's share of total national health expenditure, could not have become 5%, simply because of a typographical error, as claimed by Dr Chee. Similarly, on the second key statement 2 and chart 3, the Committee's findings have also clearly shown that the comparison of Singapore Government's spending on health care as a percentage of GDP with the percentage 

    It is significant that the Committee's views and findings are supported and endorsed by all Committee Members, including hoiyung: that the four SDP representors had committed one or more of the following contempts: perjury, wilfully giving false answers, prevaricating and misconducting themselves. 

    In the 1993 Cost Review Committee, I remember that Mr Low voiced his objections and aired his views whenever he disagreed, and he finally even decided to publish his own version of the CRC report in 1993. If Mr Low did not agree with the Committee that the four SDP representors had committed contempt of Parliament, he would have voiced his views and raised strong objections. But this appears not to be so from the Minutes of Evidence (pages C 1 to C 176 of the Report). 

    It is amazing that Chee could have used two different figures on the Government's share of national health expenditure in his two books: 5% for the 1990s in his first book, but 0.9% for 1990 in his second book! He has no compunction in misguiding the readers of his books. It is equally amazing that he even misled his own SDP comrades in the hearings on two issues, the typographical error of 5% (paragraph 56 of the Report) and on the verification of the contents of the SDP's written submission (paragraph 59). 

 believes that others would do the same as he does. He has earlier accused the Department of Statistics, MTI, of massaging statistical data in calculating the Consumer Price Index (CPI) in the SDP-PKMS' Cost of Living report. Chee and his team who appeared in the hearing of the 1996 Cost Review Committee (CRC) were uncooperative and evasive in answering the questions posed by the CRC members. The two and a half hour session turned out to be fruitless. The CRC has since shown in its report that the 76% increase in household expenditure between 1988 and 1993 was mainly due to the changes of lifestyle and family structure and other factors, and only 14 percentage points of the increase in expenditure could be attributed to price increase. But the SDP-PKMS team continued to maintain their stand that the 76% increase in household expenditure was caused solely by price rise. This is another evidence showing the length Chee would go to manipulate the truth for his own political mileage, rather than discussing "an important national issue" and "get to the bottom of the figure". Singaporeans have the right to know what kind of character Chee is, especially he is the Secretary-General of the largest opposition party, SDP, and that he has proclaimed to have "an alternative vision for Singapore". 

    The Committee has recommended to Parliament to impose fines on Chee and the other three SDP representors of varying amounts. In my view, the recommended fines are fair. The recommended penalties are not meant to deter any Singapore citizen from presenting his point of view to any Parliament's Select Committee. As pointed out by the Leader of the House just now, every Singaporean has the right to do so; but the right carries with it a corresponding responsibility to be truthful and honest in presenting his views and opinions. The House cannot tolerate dishonesty, and it must zealously guard against any act of contempt which might cause the authority of Parliament to be undermined. Parliament is the supreme law-making body in this land. Any Member of this House, present or 

    Finally, Sir, although hoiyung: Mr Chiam, would you like to speak? 

  hoiyung: Sir, as I left the office today to come here, the sky opened up and it began to drizzle. As I drove, the rain got heavier and heavier, and it became a downpour. I do not know what it really means, but in a way it helped me to realise that today marks another sad day in the history of our Parliament. Not just because we have to discuss Chee Soon Juan yet again, but more because it is becoming abundantly clear that the Secretary-General of SDP is out to demean the meaning of politics in Singapore. And in order to understand him and to talk in this House today, I have gone back to newspaper cuttings of the last five years and even tried to find out 

    Anyway, Sir, the things I found, among others, showed that Chee Soon Juan invariably disrupts and destabilises the organisations which have welcomed him into their ranks. And we see this most clearly in the fracturing of the SDP's leadership after June 1993. Mr Chiam had led the SDP for about 13 years, since 1980, with no serious leadership crisis. But then maybe number 13, ie, 13 years, proves unlucky to Mr Chiam. For a long period, Chee Soon Juan, at that time, a political unknown, who joined the SDP team in the 1992 Marine Parade by-election, was praised by Mr Chiam at that time "as the most courageous person in Singapore today and that Singapore would be amazed at the quality of the slate", and this was published in the newspapers. Sir, who would have thought then that within six months the courageous protege would turn on his mentor? In Malay, we call this lawan towkay. 

    Sir, the SDP, however, is not the only organisation which Chee Soon Juan has caused problems to when he joined it. What is perhaps not so widely known is that Chee had also sown discord within the Singapore Psychological Society when he was editor of the Society's newsletter in 1991/92. Chee had joined the Society soon after returning to Singapore with his doctoral degree. In addition to being the editor of the Society's newsletter, he was also the Treasurer. However, shortly after being in these influential positions, he began attacking the past leadership of the Society. In his January 1982 editorial he lambasted the previous councils for lacking in commitment, vision, initiative and leadership. He alleged that the Society had failed and failed utterly in contributing its services to the nation. He also accused the past councils for failing to build up and promote the profession. Chee criticized the clinical psychological practice in Singapore alleging, among 

    "Always find a way to make the lies sound reasonable, better still acceptable. One way to achieve this is to prevaricate. Distract the panel and the public from the core issues. Most important of all, in doing all these, always project yourself as if you are an innocent and honest guy. Some people are bound to fall for it. If Dr Vasoo and Mr Chiam fell for it, the public would be chicken feed." 

    This is "Dr Chee's neuropsycho-logic." He has been doing it over and over again. This is an example of the political culture and values that Dr Chee is promoting in words and deeds. I fail to understand why the SDP MPs and members continue to keep him in the party and, worse still, support him as their Secretary-General. 

    The SDP research team even abetted him, in their submissions to the Cost Review Committee and the Select Committee on Health Care Subsidy. Have they all fallen for his tricks? I suggest they take another look at him and do something before it is too late. Mr Chiam used to trust him so much. By the time he realised it, it was too late. 

    Now the PKMS has aligned itself to the SDP and therefore become a tool for Chee to propagate his beliefs. Some people argue that the PKMS is only being used by Dr Chee to get a place for his regular meetings and to get free drinks and meals. But I say this to PKMS: if you are not careful, Chee may throw you out of your own building in a similar manner he handled Mr Chiam. And we all know, he is extremely good at it. 

    It is also possible that genuine mistakes can be made in the submission of papers. However, when pointed out or realised at a subsequent stage, it is always the duty of those concerned, in honesty and truthfulness, to admit the mistakes and the errors of their position, because we all know that to err is human. Reading the news reports and the verbatim committee reports of what went on in the Select Committee on Health Care Subsidy and subsequently in the Committee of Privileges, I am rather saddened that what was very obvious was the twist and turn in argument by the Secretary-General of the SDP in justifying figures he and his team had submitted, drawn from their own so-called research and book references to justify their own position that health care expenditure as a percentage of total health care expenditure in Singapore has been so dismal, at 5%. When pointed out repeatedly that his figures and data were not accurate, Dr Chee finally admitted to a typographical error. A dummy 25% was invented in order to allow the figure "2" to be lopped off to explain the presence of a figure "5" due to a typographical error, when in fact we all know that the true figure was not "5" or "25", but actually 23.6%, from the Yearbook of Statistics. 

    In the last Cost Review Committee, which was convened to find out the basis of the allegation of the SDP-PKMS cost of living report, Dr Chee and his team were uncooperative in providing direct answers to questions. They were not interested to find out the basis of their accusation that our statistical data had been systematically massaged. His aim is to muck up the ground by all sorts of allegations for the governing party to clean up. And he 

    I am left to wonder whether Dr Chee thinks that if he affirmed his evidence at the hearings of the Select Committee on Health Care Subsidy and the Committee of Privileges that a "yes" can also mean a "no" and a "no" is also a "yes", perhaps the Leader of the SDP, with such a good brain and strong heart, to him "yes" and "no" can mean the same thing. To the hon. Members here, "yes" and "no" are not the same answers to the same question. Otherwise, Mr Speaker, Sir, you will have a very difficult time to interpret the decision of the House. 

    I am somewhat disappointed that hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if there are sceptics who want to question why the Privileges Committee's Report was released close to the General Election, they have forgotten that it was the SDP which started it all. They tried to sow seeds of hatred and anger in the people by first telling them in Chee Soon Juan's book Dare to Change, that health care cost has risen beyond their means. When Chee Soon Juan realised that nobody reads his book, he raised it in The New Democrat, the press and other forums. When lies are spread like wild fire, the Government has a duty to debunk these lies. So the Government called for a Health Cost Review Committee to examine the allegations. Chee Soon Juan and the SDP will have to face the natural consequences of their own actions and choice. That they have again brought shame to themselves deserves no pity. 

    The allegations made by the SDP members were indeed very serious. They are matters close to the heart of the people. If believed, it could disenchant and divide the people. It could incite the people to hate the Government and its policies. If such rumours are not nipped in the bud and the perpetrators brought to book, then the people may believe that they are true. I think the fine is too lenient in view of the time and taxpayers' money involved. I am told it costs the Government some few hundred thousand dollars just to convene the Health Care Cost Review Committee. 

    Sir, I read in the Report of the Privileges Committee that Mr Kwan Yue Keng conceded that Chee Soon Juan had done wrong, and indeed tried to distance himself. This was even reported in the press. But soon after that, the SDP released an undated press statement signed by Mr Kwan himself that he had complete faith in Chee Soon Juan's leadership. Could Mr Kwan have told the truth, and then being forced to say otherwise? Mr Kwan, in his clear conscience, would tell you the answer. But I think you could guess it quite correctly, going by what Chee Soon Juan is capable of doing. 

    Sir, Chee Soon Juan has been found guilty of an offence personal to himself. He will be fined by this House. He has let his party down. He has brought disgrace to his SDP members through his behaviour. And yet I read in the Sunday Times of 24th November 1996 that the decision of the Committee of Privileges posed a serious financial setback for the SDP. Does it mean that Chee Soon Juan is asking his party to pay for his fine? If so, where is his conscience? Has he a moral? Could a director of a company, for example, fined for his own misdeeds, ask his company to pay for his fine? This is certainly unheard of and wrong, morally and legally. 

    Sir, I am aware that clause X(f) of the SDP's Constitution allows for Party funds to be used to compensate the loss by a member as a result of activity for the Party. Unless giving false statements and prevaricating are condoned by the Party membership as SDP's activities, then SDP members themselves, like shareholders of a company, should question whether Party funds should be used to help pay for Chee Soon Juan's fine, since he is doing a great disservice to the Party. He has shamed the SDP! 

    I would like to urge Singaporeans to vote carefully at the coming General Election. We cannot afford to admit a cheat, a liar, into this Parliament. Look at Taiwan where fist fights are part of their parliamentary proceedings. Members of this House are honourable men and women of character and integrity, with high moral standards and conscience. They are highly respected in our society. Many serve as role models for our younger Singaporeans. We must preserve and uphold the respectability of Parliament and its members. We cannot compromise the standard of parliamentary representation. Otherwise, the electorate will suffer. Singapore will suffer. I think we do not dislike the Opposition, as Mr Chiam and Mr Low would know, but we certainly loathe dishonest, crafty and dubious Opposition. Parliament has no place for such people. 

  Dr S Vasoo (Tanjong Pagar GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, the findings of the Committee of Privileges show how the SDP key leadership had made false representation and later, when confronted, they had tried to cover up their dishonest mistakes. What they had displayed in the recent public hearings make them unworthy politicians. The Committee of Privileges was right to recommend the appropriate penalty. 

    At this point, I feel it is pertinent for me to share my frank and objective assessment of SDP Secretary-General Chee Soon Juan's behaviour and stances, as he was the key player in the SDP's 

    Sir, Chee's doing and SDP's stand have become public issues and Singaporeans must be aware so that they could judge him and the SDP leadership better. I think this is very important because Singaporeans must be able to discern honest men from dishonest men, and that is very important. I am very confident that Singaporeans will be able to discern honest people as it will be good for Singapore in the long term, because we will have progress and stability. 

    Sir, Chee has been trying to draw public attention with his usual rhetorics. This is what he is good for rhetorics. Since he was sacked from NUS for dishonest conduct, he had tried each time to cook up new answers to support his case. But each time he is cornered, he finds new answers. So it is not very new. He started doing this very early, since I knew him. Chee, together with SDP leaders, attacked 

 our key social institutions. In the Flor Contemplacion saga and Williams College affair, they had done Singapore in by siding with outsiders. When cornered each time on flawed opinions, Chee and the SDP would cover up by giving various excuses. This is quite an old story. He will continue to do so all the time. 

    Sir, why I brought up Chee's misdeeds is not because I would like to do so. You know that I am a friendly person. I am very supportive. I am not a nasty person. I had helped him so much. I just want to point out to the House and the public that his past misdeeds show in his character. He cannot cover them up as I have proofs of his misdeeds. His political sideshows will continue with his political rhetorics in order to get attention. It is therefore important for Singaporeans to take cognizance of Chee's character as he is leading the SDP. Based on Chee's past record, Singaporeans should carefully judge whether he is someone we would like to entrust our future to. 

    I would like to recall that I spoke to Mr Chiam after the Chee affair which we debated in April 1993. I think Mr Chiam would vouch for it that I told him, "Be careful with Chee and you should watch out for him. He is someone that can do you in." I did not use those words but I said that he is someone that you got to watch out. He is someone you got to be careful with. Otherwise, you may find that you may not be able to manage and deal with him. This is what I told Mr Chiam frankly. See what has happened to Mr Chiam. He has been turfed out. I am sure today Mr Chiam would concur with me. 

    Sir, I am recalling the various events so that Singaporeans will have an added dimension to evaluate Chee's character. Knowing him, I can tell you that he will continue to deny all his wrongdoings. I therefore would like to endorse the decision of this House to impose a penalty on him and other SDP members for their misrepresentations and false report. 

    He attempts to accuse others of doing the very thing he did. This projection behaviour pattern comes out clearly in the above case of Sunny Kow. Although the Minister had told the Committee that the hospital had indeed made an error in the bill presentation and that Mr Sunny Kow need not have to pay more than what he needs to pay, the SDP chief representor refused to accept and insisted that the hospital had created a pattern of over-charging or over-stating the hospital bill. Yet he failed to see his own errors in the many charts, figures and data that were presented. He projected this type of behaviour to detract the Committee but, unfortunately, he was not successful. 

    Sir, in passing judgment on the four SDP representors, we face a section of Singaporeans who think that we are trying to do the Opposition in. It is not a question of whether these four people are Opposition members or not. It is clearly a question of what must be done to a group of people who swear to tell the truth in Parliament but clearly did not. We in Parliament must do what is right and correct, or this House would be taken too lightly by those who wish to present their case before Select Committees. In other words, we are dealing with the conduct of the representors, not their political affiliations. 

    `Disappointed with Dr Chee's attitude and manner during the debate - by Noraini Hamzah. I recorded Monday, July 15, as an important date in my diary because representatives of the Singapore Democratic Party were scheduled to speak in front of the Select Committee to study Government subsidies for hospitals and polyclinics. It gives the SDP's General Secretary, Dr Chee Soon Juan, and his colleagues the opportunity to explain their stand. I imagine the meeting to be serious as the SDP's allegations were grave. Were the allegations founded? The day I had been waiting for came, but I was disappointed. In following the 8-hour discussion on television in the reporters' room at Parliament House, I observed that Members of the Select Committee panel were obviously very serious in presenting their questions, views and statements. Nonetheless, I cannot say the same for Dr Chee who became the lone voice of the 4 SDP representatives there. My observation of Dr Chee was that he twisted his answers. He often deviated from the matters discussed, blamed others. He was dishonest in his answers and he did not observe the Select Committee proceedings. He often condemned the panel members. In short, he appeared to be playing politics through his answers. His conduct made it necessary for the Chairman of the Select Committee, Mr Tan Soo Khoon, to warn him on several occasions.' 

    `The hearing went beyond 11 pm. Some people might consider Dr Chee a hero for being firm in his position, but I was quite fed up with Dr Chee's arrogance and his stubbornness in not admitting the mistakes in his figures. I was not the only one. My colleague who had all along respected Dr Chee stated, "I lost my respect for Dr Chee from today onwards." Was the SDP sincere in bringing up the issue of health care subsidies? I doubt it. As a former university lecturer, Dr Chee must have realised that an undergraduate would fail in his examinations if he distorted his answers or deviated from the questions asked.' 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, this was the observation of a newspaper reporter, not by the PAP. The comment reflected the feelings of someone who was present at the hearing. Yet, the latest paper of the SDP, 

 The New Democrat, sees a repetition of all the points brought up by the SDP representors. They obviously do not care and do not intend to hear the truth. This is not the correct way to change things. Change will come not with making political statements, but with sound alternatives that will win the hearts and minds of all educated Singaporeans. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I thank all the Members who have spoken in support of this motion. I also sympathise with Mr Chiam for being drawn into today's debate, even though he chose not to speak. And by the silence of hoiyung: The Question is, "That this Parliament doth agree with the Committee 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, it is very strange that Mr Low abstained from the voting, although it is perfectly within his right to do so. During the Committee of Privileges hearing, he did tell the whole Committee that he agreed with the logic and the conclusion of the Report. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not know the reason for the lapse on Mr Chiam's part not to have submitted his amendments. He is not a rookie MP, like hoiyung: Sir, it is for the House to decide. It is not for the Leader to decide. 

  Mr Chairman: Mr Chiam, could you allow Mr Wong to finish first? I will let you have the floor later. He is not deciding. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: It is completely in order for the House to reject Mr Chiam's request, because it is entirely his fault. He has himself to blame. 

    But here perhaps I would ask my colleagues to consider giving Mr Chiam a second chance and let him have his way again, otherwise we would be deprived of his great contribution. Of course, we do not know what he will say. So I will leave it to the MPs here to decide. In this instance, they have a free vote in deciding whether he should be allowed to speak or not. If they say yes, well and good. Mr Chiam should not forget the next time. But if they disagree, then I would perhaps ask Mr Speaker to consider and find ways of letting Mr Chiam to speak. 

  hoiyung: Sir, we now hear that Mr Chiam was waiting for the big envelope to come. 

  The Chairman: Do I have the general assent of Members of the House to allow Mr Chiam to move a motion without notice to the effect that he could have his amendments listed on the Order Paper Supplement? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, it looks like you cannot move your motion. General assent has not been given for you to move your motion. But at any rate, I think it would be possible for you to speak during the Committee of Supply because, according to the rules, if there is time still left on each head, it will be possible for you to raise your matter. I will certainly go out of my way to guide you as we move along. We will assist you and inform you when it will be possible for you to speak. So if you just stick around, you will get your opportunity to speak. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I hope you will not question what I heard. My advice to you is: stick around and I will give you the proper guidance at the appropriate moment and you will have your opportunity to speak. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: May I raise another point, Mr Speaker. Mr Chiam requests that his two other colleagues be also allowed to speak. I am not sure whether you should consider this because Mr Chiam sent in some cuts on Friday, which is a day late, whereas the other two Members did not send in anything at all. 

 every year by me. I circulated some tables (Cols. 821 - 824) which, I think, tell the story. They are correct that inflation has been slightly higher in Singapore for the last two years than previously. But if you compare Singapore with the other countries, our track record is an extremely good one. As you can see from the first chart, Singapore's graph of inflation just over the last two years is right at the bottom, lower than Malaysia in recent times, lower than Taiwan most of the time, lower than the OECD countries, much lower than Hong Kong and much lower than South Korea, which Mr Chiam said the day before is a very good example to follow. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2), Dr Wang is not here. Encik Maidin is not moving. Mr Chiam is not here. 

    With regard to the second question, the taxpayers in the lower income tax bracket will no longer be paying income tax. Instead, they become consumption taxpayers. In this regard, the Minister also announced a package of offsets and rebates to cushion the impact of GST on lower income households. So the Government has used the tax system wisely to re-distribute wealth to benefit the poor and the lower income people. SDP Members and those who preach politics of envy must be blind to these facts. I support the Prime Minister's stand that there is no place for politics of envy in Singapore. 

    Sir, New Zealand is a fascinating country, a land known for its magnificent landscape and friendly people. I think that perhaps were the reasons that drew our SDP leader there to study his first degree. Less well-known, however, is the fact that New Zealand was one of the pioneers in the field of social security. 

    The staff of the autonomous schools will be staff of the Government under the Ministry. They will remain as staff of the Ministry. I think that has got its pros and cons. On the one hand, they will feel more secure because the Government system is a bigger system. On the other hand, Mr Low has mentioned that there is less flexibility to hire the staff. Perhaps that was Dr Toh's point, but I am not sure. We will allow the autonomous schools some flexibility in this area. For example, if they need to introduce enrichment programmes with the additional money which they will have, which will range from about $700,000 a year to about almost $1.2 million, they can hire specialist staff to provide enrichment programmes. So this will be the flexibility. They can also use the money to hire supporting staff and relieve the teachers of some of the teaching load. So on the whole, this will be a very good scheme and I hope more students will be able to benefit from the scheme. 

    I will now deal with the points raised by the other Members. Mr Low has asked what is the basis for the Government's calculation of setting the Minimum Sum at $80,000 in 10 years' time. The original Minimum Sum of $30,000 was introduced in 1986 and was meant just to provide support for CPF members at the subsistence level. The original $30,000 would be able to provide members with $230 a month from the age of 60 years over a 20-year period. This monthly payment of $230 was estimated by the Ministry based on a study conducted by the Singapore 

    Mr Chiam asked about joint account for a married couple. What happens when they are divorced? What happens to the Minimum Sum Scheme? I have already said, in my statement, that to obtain the concession of setting aside 1(r) times of the Minimum Sum for a married couple, they have to irrevocably nominate the spouse as the beneficiary. But if, for whatever reason, there is a divorce, then of course the settlement will have to depend on the court. How they decide on the assets to be distributed, that will be dependent on the court's decision. 

  In Mandarin): Sir, let me first reply to the Member for Hougang on the contents of the curricula. The Member for Hougang said that the revision of the curriculum of some technical subjects was carried out in a hurry. This is not true 

    Mr Low also mentioned that there had been too many curriculum projects. This is in fact a praise for the Ministry of Education. It is true that there is a variety of curricula and audio-visual aids projects developed by the Ministry. I agree with him that the co-operation between schools and parents is an important factor in making these projects effective and useful. In fact, the schools have always been doing this to promote such close relationship. 

    On audio-visual aids and other teaching accessories, we have been selecting and acquiring the best available in the market. The most modern audio-visual aids such as laser discs, compact discs, video tapes and other facilities are used to teach languages and technical subjects. The production of such teaching aids is important to help students in learning the subjects. I do not know why the Member for Hougang wants to criticise this. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

  hoiyung: I do not propose to have a debate on this matter, Mr Low. I have taken note of what the Leader of the House has stated and I suggest that we leave the matter over till next week. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Let me correct the Member for Potong Pasir. First of all, we have not achieved our objective of having a world-class transport system. This is an objective that we have set ourselves. This is an objective that we will have to take many, many years to achieve. At the moment, there are things in our public transport system that are not satisfactory and I have said this many times. But to say that and to link it with the current spate of accidents, I think, is stretching his licence as an Opposition Member a little bit too far. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, there may well be some home buyers who face the situation described by Mr Chiam. But as Mr Chiam himself pointed out, many of these people would have money for renovation but yet they say that they have inadequate CPF savings to meet the mortgage repayment. I would suggest that this is a matter of priority - which should come first? Purchase the home and then renovate it at some later stage when you have more money or to proceed immediately for renovation now and to 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo cited a situation in which two siblings inherited an HDB flat upon the death of their parents. Now one of the siblings is married and intends to move out of the flat, leaving behind the remaining sibling as the sole occupier. The issue is whether the remaining sibling qualifies to be the sole owner and occupier of the HDB flat. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, are you making a speech? Could you proceed to ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Cheo need not be concerned that HDB will compulsorily acquire the flat. Time and opportunity are given to persons in such circumstances to find accommodation, or to invite somebody else who is eligible to join him to occupy the flat, or to move out to live with his sibling who has married. In all these cases, if he wishes to sell his flat, he can do so. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Cheo suggests that it is very disruptive for a person to move to another place of accommodation. There are more than 30,000 transactions a year where people move from one flat to another flat and there are lots of renovation going on, some very costly, and the people seem to be doing this rather than staying where they are all the time. So this may not be a big concern at all and he should not be worried about it. He suggests that since the numbers are small, we should accommodate them. The point is not whether the numbers are big or small. The point is the principle that we want to establish here. 

    Sir, HDB does not build accommodation. HDB builds homes for families, for people to bring up their families in a clean, hygienic and conducive environment for the development of their children. If we agree to this principle, then we should build more homes for family units. For single people in those circumstances, we will try to accommodate them in whatever way we can within their circumstances. But on Mr Cheo's first concern whether we will acquire those flats, we will not. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Cheo is pursuing his line of questioning on a wrong premise. We do not force people to move out of their flats. 

  hoiyung: I am not quite sure how Mr Chiam has connected together all these variegated ideas. First of all, I think he is wrong in saying that opposition town councils have not organised fairs. Opposition town councils have indeed organised fairs since this policy was introduced in July 1994 and these are in Nee Soon Central and Hougang. So they have held some fairs. 

  hoiyung: Sir, on the first point, I wish to make a clarification. Mr Low is correct. Potong Pasir Town Council and Bukit Gombak Town Council have organised fairs and he is correct that Nee Soon Central and Hougang have not organised fairs, although the grassroots organisations have organised fairs since July 1994. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this is not the first time that Mr Low has pursued this line of questioning. This was also pursued 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have already explained the qualifying periods, the times and how the quota is allocated. I am not sure which part Mr Chiam does not understand. In any case, I should reiterate the reasons why we introduced this rule in the first place. There was a proliferation of pasar malams all over Singapore and the durations were not controlled. They were starting to create a nuisance, noise and unsanitary conditions affecting two main groups of people: (1) the residents, because they were inconvenienced by all this noise; (2) shopkeepers were unhappy because these pasar malams came, operated without the overheads of having to maintain shops throughout the year in order to service their customers. And these pasar malams were coming in at particular times of the year, undercutting shopkeepers and taking away their customers. So in response to these concerns, we introduced some curbs on the duration of pasar malams, where they can be held, how often they can be held. I have explained the duration, the booking period and so forth. I am not sure which part Mr Chiam does not understand. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Low is mistaken on all the counts that he has raised. First of all, RCs are curbed. RCs have a limit of three days per year. RCs have curbs placed on them and there are controls. And it is also not true that opposition town councils are not able to organise pasar malams. Opposition town councils have organised pasar malams. As I said, Potong Pasir Town Council has done so. Bukit Gombak Town Council has done so. And the town councils are one of the three groups in a constituency, together with the CCC and the CCMC, who can use the 16 days for organising fairs. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Ling, would you give way to Dr Tan? 

    Since I am on my feet, Mr Speaker, Sir, would you allow me to seek clarification from Mr Ling? I heard him saying that people have been asked to pay cash to top up their Minimum Sum. I would like Mr Ling to produce evidence that we have asked people to pay cash to top up their Minimum Sum because that is not how the Minimum Sum is being operated and that is not my understanding of how the revised Minimum Sum Scheme is being implemented. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Ling, your time is up. Mr Leong. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, could you ask your questions? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Sir, we have gone through all these subjects. I think it is not necessary to answer Mr Low's points one by one. He can file questions and we can discuss them at length. I would just come back to the simple question to him: does he prefer to live elsewhere? If not, accept that we are living in a real world with a good system, not perfect, but not bad at all. 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock: Sir, on a point of order. Mr Chiam did not file an amendment. And if you allow him to speak, I presume you are changing the rules of debate. 

  The Chairman: Dr Tan, you were not in the House yesterday when I made the decision regarding Mr Chiam. Could you please resume your seat? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, would you like to make your speech on HDB matters? 

  hoiyung: The amendment has been disposed of already, Mr Chiam. We are not on resettlement any more. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, you can make your speech first, because Mr Yao will be replying. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we are running out of time. Have you finished? 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Chiam would make a most popular Member of Parliament in Kuwait - if only they had a Parliament in Kuwait. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam talks glibly about giving up on behalf of the nation, making sacrifices for the nation, and then he says that there is no need to do BMT. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, I do not think Mr Chiam has any clue whatsoever about what is involved in basic military training. It is not fitness. It is the acquiring of basic military skills, to know how to fight, to know how to ensure that you do not get killed. And then later on, after having learned the individual skills to survive in war, soldiers have to learn how to fight as a group, as a platoon, as a company, as a battalion, as a division, to ensure that under enemy fire, the organisation, the entire unit, is able to hold together and to defend positions that are to be held. 

    Sir, Mr Chiam talks about Germany and Switzerland, almost as if Singapore is identical to them in all aspects. That the Germans require a year and a half --- 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Chiam has been interrupting. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, Dr Yeo is not giving way. 

  hoiyung: It shows he knows nothing about it about national service. That is the trouble with you. You have not made the effort. Sir, Mr Chiam has not made the effort to find out what is involved in national service. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, of course, there is street fighting. Mr Chiam does not know what FIBUA stands for, quite obviously. Does he? He does not know. In other words, he knows nothing about national service. 

  Mr Bernard Chen: Sir, I think Mr Chiam obviously is not interested in national 

  Mr Koo Tsai Kee (Tanjong Pagar GRC): Sir, first, I must protest that there is not much time left for me and Dr Ho. I think we should not allow the Member for Potong Pasir to speak in the first place. 

    Sir, I want to make a protest here that some time earlier in the week, the Member for Potong Pasir said that reliefs like that will make reservists like us mercenaries. I think he does not understand what a mercenary is. A mercenary is somebody who fights somebody else's cause. So we are not mercenaries. A mercenary is not covered under the Geneva Convention. He is totally confused. He knows nothing about Army terminology and he comes here and claims to talk about Army terms - Switzerland, Basic Military Training. 

    I think as the unofficial Leader of the Opposition, if he cannot say what he means, then he would not mean what he says. I think perhaps he meant that we are not mercenaries, but maybe mercenary in attitude. So I think he should brush up on his language. If he cannot say what he means, he would not mean what he says. 

  Dr Ho Tat Kin: Sir, we have just heard from Mr Chiam who thinks that the world is so safe that we can cut down our national service training. I totally disagree with him. Sir, the impermanence is all around us. Nobody foretold the collapse of the Communist states, the crash of October 1987 was not anticipated, neither did the Americans expect Pearl Harbour. Personally, I fear for the country if the calls for reduction of the length in national service are widespread. First, the external conditions are not the only determinant for the maintenance of a country's defence force. When the SAF was set up, it was not because of the Cold War, neither should the demise of the Cold War have anything to do with our security apparatus. 

    Sir, the call for a shorter stint of national service is a shortsighted one. Before such views proliferate and become populist sentiments of Mr Chiam and his gang, I think we should nip it in the bud. Once it is allowed to flower, it will hurt our country. The question that I would like to ask the Minister is: will MINDEF eventually succumb to the call for a reduction of the existing 2 1/2 years' full time national service and shorter national service stint? 

    Sir, I am of the opinion that the length of our national service is just about adequate. I served in the People's Defence Force before, unlike Mr Chiam. Therefore, in the same breath, can we also have the Minister's assurance that the length of 

  The Chairman: Dr John Chen is not here. Mr Chiam. 

    So contrary to what Mr Chiam claimed again, the Government has not given up the Open University programme. It has just changed the mode of implementation. In fact, the Government is fully behind the programme. We are providing $38 million as an upfront grant to pay for the development of courses, collaboration with the Open University of UK and also to build the buildings and provide computer facilities and so on. So I hope Mr Chiam will stop repeating this point that the Open University has been dropped. It has not been dropped. The vehicle has been changed. That is all. Basically, because the SIM has been doing a good job in conducting these distance learning courses, part-time courses, we feel it is better to ride on them and make use of their expertise. 

    Mr Chiam has advocated that we set up a third university. Let me explain the Ministry's thinking on this important subject. 

 foreign universities. On the other hand, as Mr Chiam has mentioned, we will also need more trained manpower as we try to develop our external economy, and graduates are also needed for our R&D efforts. 

    The NUS and NTU are taking in as many local students as are able to make the grade and benefit from a tertiary education. Quite contrary to what Mr Chiam claimed, I do not think any students who qualify have been turned away, unless, of course, they prefer courses for which there are not enough places, for example, in medicine. So it is not true that if they qualify and meet the criteria they are turned away. I would like him to give me some examples if he has them. 

    Mr Chiam mentioned some figures about the number of universities in Australia, New Zealand, and so on. But I think it is important to find out also what is the capacity of the universities and what kind of courses they are offering. For example, in the UK, they are converting many of their polytechnics to universities. So in time to come, we will have to assess the UK degrees, not based on whether it is a degree but where the students are from, and what is the quality of the person. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: I am responding to Mr Chiam's question. Last year, out of about 11,500 students who sat for the "A" levels, about 83%, or 9,470 to be exact, obtained two 'A' and two 'O' level passes, including General Paper. So there were about 9,000 students. This is comparable to my figure of about 20% of the cohort. So there is some kind of matching here. But Mr Chiam has mentioned a figure of about 12,500 people studying overseas. They could be in a wide range of courses. I believe a lot of parents send their children to the United States to do "O" levels. So some of these could be in this figure. They could also be doing Ph.D, advanced courses, and so forth. And I know a lot are doing medicine and law. We may be over-producing people in these professions in years to come. In general, I think those who are able to make the grade, will be able to get a place in Singapore. 

    From the reaction of the Opposition Members over the last two days, we can see that they are also very concerned and interested in the upgrading programme and are rather apprehensive about it. In fact, they are like "ants on a hot pan". Of course, in their position, they may say that this is a vote-catching stunt of the PAP. But, there is one thing which hoiyung: " No fish, shrimps will do (Half a loaf is better than no bread)." So he requested the Minister of State to consider approving partial upgrading. The reply by the Minister of State was very appropriate: "When you perform a surgical operation, you must complete the operation at one go. You cannot leave the scalpel inside the body, and stitch back the wound. That would be too troublesome." So, his answer was very clear and appropriate. I am afraid Mr Low will have 

  The Chairman: Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Can I reply to Mr Low? 

  In Mandarin): Sir, thank you for allowing me to speak. Mr Low asked me how I am going to run my town council. The Hokkien has this saying: I cannot teach you my tricks. So if I cannot teach you, how can you want me to teach you? You must join the PAP. 

    Mr Cheo and hoiyung: Order. It is 5.00 pm. 

  hoiyung: Sir, that is a separate issue, but what the Member for Hougang is implying is that the Ministry's officials should have probed further to look into evidence of abuse. We did, and we did not find any evidence of abuse in this particular case. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, unless you have any fresh points to make, I intend to move on to the debate on the Budget Statement. You keep on asking the same points again. 

  hoiyung: Your question is hypothetical. The Minister need not answer that. Mr Low, do you have any other questions? 

 wonder how much reserves they must have in order to tide them over the crisis. Similarly, will we have enough reserves to see us through should this scenario happen to us one day? Here, I think Mr Chiam, the hon. Member for Potong Pasir, is totally off the mark when he said that "any war will end in seven days". 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, if Mr Low had carefully studied this very thick Budget book, he should realise that the amount allocated to MITA is just 0.13% of our GDP. The increase in allocation each year is so little that it is not even enough to build an Institute of Technical Education. 

    On medical subsidies, subsidised patients seeking treatments at polyclinics and restructured hospitals are subsidised based on real costs, and not market prices, as the Member for Bukit Gombak has suggested. 

    The Member for Bukit Gombak has raised the same issue last year that hospital charges should be exempted from GST. Let me assure the Member again that the Government has increased its grants to Government and restructured hospitals and clinics to cover the cost of GST on subsidised services. The reason for not exempting medical service from GST is for efficient tax administration purposes. 

    The Member for Bukit Gombak has also made some comments on the various taxes and measures used to curb car ownership in Singapore. As stated in the White Paper on a World Class Land Transport System, the Government will rationalise the current vehicle tax structure with the introduction of the Electronic Road Pricing system. When the Government started the Vehicle Quota System, it lowered the Additional Registration Fee (ARF) from 175% to 160% of 

    Mr Goh asked whether the Minister will confirm that the CPF withdrawal age will remain at 55. Let me assure him that it is the intention to retain the present CPF withdrawal age at 55. All workers who attain the age of 55 will be allowed to withdraw their accumulated CPF savings. I believe the Member for Hougang, hoiyung: Do you want to give way to Dr Toh, Dr Lee? 

Chiam See Tong

Ling How Doong

Low Thia Khiang

Chiam See Tong

Ling How Doong

Low Thia Khiang

    Sir, in closing, I would like to express my surprise that Mr Chiam and the other Members of the Opposition have not given their support to the setting up of this Court of Appeal. I just wonder why. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Sir, it would be logical to do that. But if we did that and if we started on that premise in 1990, today we will be having a vehicle population mix which is exactly the same as that in 1990, and similarly further down the road. So the replacement COEs, as I have explained to Mr Chiam, are not all put into the existing categories, but 25% of them are used for the Open Category. However, not all of them are put in the Open Category. Ideally, we should put all the recycled or replacement COEs into the Open Category and let the market decide for itself what it wants. However, again, we come back to this question of equity and trying to protect the small car owners from the big car owners. So we have put 25% of them into the Open Category. Of course, at this stage, the Open Category is more popular with the larger car owners, but it does not necessarily follow that this will always be so. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Mr Speaker, Mr Teo and Mr Cheo's questions seem to suggest that the lifespan of a COE should be related to the actual mechanical life of a vehicle. Let me take this opportunity to clarify that the two are quite separate. They are not inter-related. The COE is like 

    The result of all these sound policies has been a rapid increase in standards of living for Singaporeans in every sphere of our lives, a visible transformation of our society. Even President Yang Shangkun of China marvelled at the quality of our HDB flats. And yet Mr Chiam claimed that the average Singaporean is not as well-off now as he was in the 70s. 

    Before I close, Sir, I would like to comment on what Mr Chiam said just now. There are two points. First, on his reference to the engineer drawing $1,700 in 1970. Is it right, Mr Chiam? 

    Mr Chiam said that in 1972 he knew of an engineer who earned $1,600. My colleague, Dr Low, an eminent engineer, has already said that it was not the case. But even granting the fact that his friend is an exceptionally bright engineer earning $1,600 in 1972, his friend probably represents 2-3% of his cohort, whereas today more than 10% of the cohort who go to university own cars and houses albeit slightly longer. So the cost of living is only a small side effect of the rising standard of living. He talks about today's engineers wanting cars. It is because so many engineers want cars that they have to wait a little bit longer. So it is a sure sign that the standard of living has gone up. 

    In this regard, I cannot help but touch on the points made by the Member for Potong Pasir on the concept of Singaporean Singapore and his stress on creating a homogeneous society. Mr Speaker, his points contain an underlying charge, that Singaporeans, Chinese, Malays and Indians, are growing more and more communalistic in their attitude. 

    The points made by the Member for Potong Pasir raises many questions that give us cause for concern. When someone says that Singaporeans are growing more and more communalistic, the impression one gets is of a widening gap between the different communities. But this is not so in reality. On the other hand, an explanation is called for as to what one means by "homogeneous society" and "Singaporean Singapore", because this question cannot be allowed to create confusion among us. 

    That is why I call this worrying question that must be challenged so as not to create misunderstanding in our society. Must a Malay, for example, lose his identity, his religion and language in order to be some sort of person whose nature, character and appearance I think even the Member for Potong Pasir cannot begin to visualise? 

    Firstly, the Consumer Price Index. Sir, when the Prime Minister commissioned this Committee to its task, many Singaporeans looked eagerly to its work and report. That members of the SDP opted out of this Committee is an opportunity wasted on their part, and shows a lack of commitment on their part. In contrast, 

 hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, in November last year, SDP held a forum and it was pointed out at the forum that medical, housing, education and transport costs had increased disproportionately to the increase in wages. This has in fact been confirmed by the Cost Review Committee. However, the Cost Review Committee has insisted that the increase is in fact due to the high expectations of the people. SDP did not participate in the deliberation of this Committee - I must mention the fact here - because before the Committee had a chance to meet and deliberate, Ministers had already made statements to the effect that the rise in the cost of living was in fact due to the high expectations of the people. They have in fact prejudged the whole thing. And that is one of the reasons why we did not want to participate in the deliberation of the Committee. 

  Encik Mohamad Maidin B P M: Sir, I just want to ask the Member for Bukit Gombak a few questions. One, in his speech, is he suggesting that Singaporeans should pay in advance to get a car park lot when they buy a HDB flat? Two, how did he arrive at the figure of $100,000 based on $50 a month over 99 years? My calculation shows that it is about $59,000. And these are paid $50 a month, and not in advance, or a lump sum. The third question is: can the Member explain what was the main point that he wanted to drive across in his speech because I have some difficulty in trying to grasp the meaning? 

  hoiyungasked the SDP to build its own flats. Why is it that the SDP has not been able to do so all these years? The second question is this. The SDP leader said just now that he disagrees with the finding of the CRC on the question of rising cost of living. Since the Report cannot convince him, can he present a report which can convince us? 

  Mr Speaker: Do you wish to respond, Mr Ling? 

  hoiyungasked the SDP to build its own flats. We had already made some counter-proposals. But these counter-proposals were not accepted. How could we proceed? If our counter-proposals had been accepted and we failed to carry them 

  Mr Loh Meng See (Kampong Glam GRC): Mr Speaker, I just want to seek a clarification from Mr Ling. Is he suggesting that the Government does not allow family members to tap the Medisave savings of their relatives in the hospital? I just want to confirm that point from him. 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I be permitted to ask Mr Ling a question? Is he proposing that since many of the older people, even those who are working today, in their 50s but self-employed, do not have Medisave and because they do not have Medisave, they should automatically be given free treatment? 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Government has always made it very clear that those who are unable to afford paying even the heavily subsidised Class C charges will get their charges waived. We stand by that. We have had no occasion where people have come forward and say, "We have not been able to afford it" and were denied treatment or were still forced to pay without being given the option to get a waiver of fees. If Mr Ling is aware of any cases of this nature, please let us know. But he has still not answered my question. What about a person who is self-employed who does not have any Medisave, but his children have Medisave accounts? Is he saying, as long as you do not have a Medisave account, you do not have to pay the bills? Is he suggesting that? 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Ling has not replied to my second question. I would like to ask him when he is going to present his report to us. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, you still want to clarify? 

    "Workers' Party MP Low Thia Khiang said that the Government should increase its public spending to offset living costs." 

    Here, Sir, on the same day, Singaporeans read and probably thought that the Member for Hougang had found a solution to the whole problem - a very simplistic one though - just increase public spending. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I was not yet born in 1947. But certainly, the Member will accept that, today, you can buy almost any fruit available in the market and there is so much more to enjoy. I think it is not the same as in 1946 which was just after the War. I do not know what kind of fruits we imported then. But anyway Mr Chiam may be able to tell us. 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng: Sir, may I seek clarification from Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I know Mr Chiam has got some problems with doing sums. And this particular issue is going to be very difficult because it involves the computation of the CPI. Unless a person is mathematically sound, it is very difficult for him to understand why the weightage of things like hospital charges is less than food. I really regret very much that he did not sit in the Committee. I could have found some way of explaining this to him. But if he still persists that the CPI is wrong, I must emphasise that it is calculated according to international standards and nobody else has found it to be wrong, not even hoiyung: Even at O-level now. 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng: Even O-level now. So if there are more people going for cars than the supply, then the price must go up, is it not? What is Mr Chiam's point about economics that we have done wrong? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Let Mr Chiam clarify first. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Can you let Mr Chiam clarify first? 

  hoiyung: Point of clarification, Sir. Would Mr Chiam agree that an item should be reflected according to how important it is to the family's expenditure? Would he agree with that? 

  hoiyung: Would Mr Chiam refer to Annex E, page 145 of the Report, which sets out the weighting pattern? In other words, how important different items are in the average household expenditure. Does he say that this is not an accurate reflection of the average household expenditure in Singapore? 

  hoiyung: Sir, let us stick to the subject at hand. Mr Chiam made a very serious allegation that the CPI does not reflect what the average family incurs in terms of costs for various items. He said that food should not be 40%. 

  hoiyung: Would Mr Chiam agree that if somebody goes to hospital or buys a car or a house, it is an expenditure that is incurred once in many years, and therefore it should be averaged out? Would he agree? 

  hoiyung: First of all, if the flat goes up by $50,000, he does not pay in that year. Mr Chiam knows that. Let us forget about the layman's perception. What is Mr Chiam's perception? 

  hoiyung: Can Mr Chiam point to the part of the Report which says that there are no cost rises? Please quote. 

  hoiyung: Please point out the part of the Report which says that there are no cost rises. Mr Chiam has repeated many times that the Government says that there are no cost rises. Where in the Report does it say there are no cost rises? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I thought we started off by trying to clarify, and Mr Chiam admitted that an item should be reflected in accordance with the proportion that the household spends on that item. Of course, some items go up more than other items. If brandy goes up a hundred times, does it mean that, overall, the average household will spend a hundred times more? Surely not, because brandy is probably an insignificant part of a household's expenditure. Therefore, an item must be reflected in the 

 basket in accordance with the proportion that a household spends on that item. Mr Chiam agreed to that. I assume he still agrees to that. Does Mr Chiam agree that an item must be reflected in accordance with the proportion that a household spends on that item? 

  hoiyung: Sir, perception is one thing. But one must try and assess the accuracy of the perception. Therefore, economists and statisticians collect a lot of data. This table on page 145 was not dreamt up by somebody sitting in the office to determine how much people spend on food. Thousands of households were interviewed, and records were kept daily on what they spent. That is how this was derived. Regardless of what the man-in-the-street, the average man, the layman, thinks, I want to know what Mr Chiam thinks. If he agrees that this is an accurate reflection, that overall the CPI is an accurate reflection of the inflation rate, then what is he doing to correct the misperception of the layman? Is he trying to correct the misperception or is he trying to worsen it? 

  hoiyung: We are not asking Mr Chiam to give answers to the Government or to support the Government. All we are asking is that he should also, as he requests of the Government, tell the truth. If he does not know the truth, he should search for the truth. In the case of the perception of the public about inflation, if he is serious about searching for the truth, then he should at least read this Report in detail. I think the problem about Mr Chiam and others whom he has quoted, like Mr Chua, is that, you want to hold to a position and you are saying, "Please, do not confuse my prejudices with facts." Please search for the truth, and I think you should, like your request of the Government, speak the truth. Are you convinced, on the basis of this Report, that the CPI is accurate, that there is no attempt by the Government to skew the picture of inflation in Singapore, that this does not try to paint the wrong picture? But perhaps people's perception may be different. I am not saying that is not so. But is Mr Chiam, as somebody who wants to know the truth about the inflation in Singapore, satisfied? If Mr Chiam is not satisfied, what is Mr Chiam going to do in terms of trying to find out the truth? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, do you want to clarify? 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, it is quite clear that Mr Chiam does not really want to look at the true position on inflation. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, for giving me this opportunity. I wanted to wait until Mr Ling and Mr Chiam have spoken to see what new ideas they have to resolve this issue, but I find that they are the same points raised since 1985/86. For that, I must congratulate Mr Chiam for tutoring and nurturing Mr Ling in the same footsteps. He has raised --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, I was not trying to be sarcastic. I was trying to compliment Mr Chiam that the points that Mr Ling raised were indeed the same points that Mr Chiam had raised with the late Mr Teh Cheang Wan and also Mr Lee Kuan Yew. 

 published data. The issue is land cost. Here, Mr Ling raised the same points as Mr Chiam did when Mr Chiam had a debate with Mr Lee Kuan Yew seven years ago, and that is, land has no value, according to Mr Chiam. Government should cost the land of HDB flats at its acquisition cost. I think Mr Chiam will remember the debate in which he had to back down and accept that land has a value in Singapore, and that value is determined everyday in the market through willing buyer, willing seller, and determined by valuers. 

    Mr Chiam, I think, will remember the debate he had with Mr Lee Kuan Yew and perhaps he should tell Mr Ling, since Mr Ling is not here, the outcome of the debate, unless they are not on speaking terms. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: Not on talking terms. Or Mr Cheo can convey the message. 

    Next, the selling price. Mr Ling says 4-room flats have gone up from $70,000 to $100,000, and now to $150,000. I think he should know that they are 4-room flats, and a 4-room flat in the 1970s was only 83 square metres. Today, a 4-room flat is 105 square metres. So if the price of a 4-room flat goes up, it is because the flat size itself has gone up, the improvements have gone in, and also costs have gone up. 

    Mr Ling says a 4-room flat costs $150,000. That is true. We do sell 4-room flats in Bukit Merah for $150,000, but we also sell 4-room flats in Choa Chu Kang, in Woodlands, for less than $100,000. So a 4-room flat will cost differently in different locations and depending on the design. As a result, the Government has introduced smaller 4-room flats which are about 90 square metres, and we are now selling them at between $80,000 and $95,000. So we price according to what it costs. Having determined the cost and having determined the price, we should make sure that it is subsidised. 

    We now look at this issue of subsidy - how big a subsidy ought to be incorporated. Again, Mr Chiam had this debate in 1985/86 whereupon he was challenged by the late Mr Teh to undertake the building of HDB flats and to sell them back to HDB at the prices that HDB would sell. Today, when Mr Peh Chin Hua reminded Mr Ling of the debate, Mr Ling claimed that the SDP laid down some conditions before they could take up the offer. I was not here then, but I have been reading up the Hansard, and if my memory serves me well, Mr Chiam laid down 19 conditions before he could take up Mr Teh's offer. Among these 19 conditions, two are worth repeating. First condition was the SDP would only build if it did so for all HDB flats. So it is all, or nothing. It is not one block; it is everything. Of course, Mr Teh could not leave all the HDB flats to SDP. Second condition was 20% of the cost of building all these flats must be given to SDP before it would start work. So Mr Teh said, "Mr Chiam, you can't be serious. My HDB building programme is $3 billion a year. You want 20% as downpayment before you start work? You mean, I have got to give you $600 million before the SDP starts work?" So Mr Teh obviously could not accept his conditions. Mr Ling has again today referred to these conditions not being accepted before the SDP builds. 

    The fact of the matter is that all these data are available. People understand the costs; people understand the subsidy that is received by the people from the Government. Just yesterday when Mr Chiam heard Mr Chng Hee Kok mention 

 that a Tampines Executive flat was sold immediately after the person got it, and he made a capital gain of $200,000, Mr Chiam jumped up and said, "Cannot be, cannot be!" That is exactly the subsidy that such a person has received. That is the subsidy the person has received because he was allowed to sell it before the five years are up. When the Government explained that subsidy is based on what he pays and what he could have sold, either at the resale price or, in this case, because of certain rules he is allowed to sell immediately, that is the amount of subsidy. And the same concept applies to a 4-room flat or a 3-room flat. Today, you buy a 4-room flat from the Government at $100,000. The resale value of a 4-room flat, which is much older, in the same location would have been $160,000 to $180,000. So the person who bought the 4-room flat enjoys a subsidy no less than $60,000 or $80,000. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have all day. We can debate it today. 

  hoiyung: Let me respond to him first. He has the article which says that for a 3-room flat, the HDB could have made $22,000; and a 4-room flat, the HDB could have made a surplus of $40,000. These were precisely the numbers which led to the debate between Mr Teh and Mr Chiam. Mr Teh said, "Look. If you say that HDB makes a surplus of $22,000 for a 3-room flat, and for a 4-room flat it makes a surplus of $40,000, here is a piece of land, you build it; you sell it back to us at the then selling prices, and you make the profit." And BG Lee at that time, as Minister of State, told him, "Mr Chiam, take the offer. You can make a profit of $60 million straight into your SDP funds." But he did not take up such a lucrative offer. Instead, he gave 19 conditions, and wanted $600 million downpayment before he would start work. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise to support the motion that this House accepts the Report of the Cost Review Committee. This Report represents the collective effort of 16 Singaporeans from across the economic and political spectrum, both the PAP and the Opposition, to understand why there is this perception that cost increases have raced ahead of income. Invitations were sent out to SDP but they refused. And now Mr Chiam comes round and says that this CRC Report is a political propaganda to win votes for the PAP. I think Mr Chiam should apologise to these 16 members, both the PAP and the Workers' Party, and also the neutral people from the University, from the press, for imputing this malicious intention on their part. I think their efforts were selfless. They took time off from their office and some of them took leave. And here Mr Chiam comes round and says that these people are part of the political ploy. 

    Sir, the CRC Report nails the lie that the CPI does not reflect the cost of living. It also nails the lie that the Government fudges its figures and cooks up its statistics. The figures have been put under the microscope. They have withstood the test of multi-partisan scrutiny. Mr Chiam did not see the facts. That is his problem. I think we should let the matter rest. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, can you seek your clarification now? 

  Dr Tay Eng Soon: Sir, I will first turn to the points made by Mr Chiam. I have already spoken quite extensively about the recruitment of teachers to try to meet the shortage situation, so I will not repeat myself. 

    His point about class size is something that he brings up predictably almost every year. Mr Chiam has the opinion that to have good education, you must keep your class size small, the smaller the better. I do not know where he has obtained this information from. I suspect he has obtained it from his Western contacts, because it is true in the UK and the United States. One of the key points that has been made by many people is that they must keep class sizes small, the smaller the better, 20-25 per class. But does Mr Chiam know that in these two countries, the UK and US, there is a great deal of unhappiness about education. In fact, there are a lot of criticisms about the dropping standards of education in these two countries. And this is a subject which will affect the elections in Britain in April and possibly the American presidential elections in November. So I do not think he should just simply quote or ape something which is being widely touted in another place and say that this is the solution for Singapore. 

    I was going to come to this next point. What are the key factors for success in schools? Since Mr Chiam and Mr Low are very concerned about this, what are the key factors for success in schools? I think, first, the basic ability of the child is very important. A child is endowed with certain abilities. That is very basic and important. Secondly, the motivation of the child is important also. The child may be very bright in terms of his endowment. If he is unmotivated, he will not do well, he will not pay attention to his studies. So motivation is important. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, in future, before you rise, can you please ask for my permission first? 

  hoiyung: May I just supplement what my Senior Minister of State has said in answer to Mr Chiam's question. I understand it is his favourite question and it is something worth debating. 

    As has been mentioned by Dr Tay, in fact the class sizes in Japan and Taiwan are 40, 50 and even above. In Singapore's case, our standard class size is 40; some schools have less. In fact, the average figure for secondary schools is about 36 pupils per class. Those schools that are less popular tend to have smaller classes. The popular ones tend to have big classes, sometimes as big as 44, and their results are better. So it is not so much the class size alone. Let us not over-emphasise this point. If you want to reduce class size, for example, you go from 40 to 20, as advocated by Mr Chiam, you will have to increase the number of teachers by a factor of two. Instead of 20,000 teachers, you need to have 40,000 teachers. Where do you find that number of teachers? And what is the value of so doing? If you teach in front of a class of 20 or a class of 40, what is the difference? You are teaching, right? Of course, if you want to have an interactive method, then it is better to have a smaller class size. But you must remember that sometimes when you interact with the pupils, in fact, you may be spending more time with one pupil at the expense of the whole class. That is a problem that is discovered in the western system. 

    'Recent US computer studies of educational achievements started in America in the 1960s and 1970s ... Computers checked the development of verbal and other skills in more than 1 million mainly American youngsters, and correlated these with the things educationists had said mattered most, such as greater state spending per pupil [put more money in] and on themselves [on the teachers], smaller classes, [Mr Chiam's favourite point], more modern buildings. They found nil or negative correlation, almost each time.' 

  hoiyung: Sir, the answer is really very simple. I have by coincidence looked up the two cases mentioned by Mr Low and by coincidence I have also discovered that these two persons were represented by Mr J B Jeyaretnam and Mr Jeyaretnam is the Secretary-General of the Workers Party. I think Mr Jeyaretnam knows full well of the circumstances why these foreign workers could not be allowed to stay in Singapore. 

  hoiyung: I am really disappointed that Mr Low has not been fully apprised of the facts of the case. He just told us that his understanding is that the hearing of the case was on 21st February 1995. From what I know, the hearing on 21st February was not a hearing of the merits of the case. It was a preliminary hearing, in other words, the lawyers and the company get together in court to fix a date for the trial. It is not a hearing. That is my first disappointment that he has not been informed of the correct facts. 

    The second disappointment is that Mr Low is pursuing a case of his party's boss. When his party's boss fails to take up a 

  hoiyung: I concede that Mr Low does not have a pecuniary interest to declare. I concede that. But at the same time Mr Low knows, and I know, that this case was represented by Mr Jeyaretnam and Mr Jeyaretnam is his party's boss. I think at least he should have the decency to tell us that this case was pursued by his party's boss who had failed with the Ministry of Home Affairs. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your question? Can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: In fact, I was not about to mention Mr Jeyaretnam until Mr Low mentioned the names of these two foreign workers. There is a direct connection. Mr Jeyaretnam is the counsel for these two persons that Mr Low mentioned, and that is a fact. I am only stating a fact that Mr Jeyaretnam is the Secretary-General of the party which Mr Low belongs. I think it is a very fair statement that people ought to know how this case came about. We are not talking about general policy. If we are talking 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam has missed my point. The extension up to 21st February does no good to the workers, because 21st February is only for fixing a date of hearing. If the hearing is fixed, say, for June, are we saying that they be allowed to remain until June and meanwhile they would be unemployed or employed illegally and become like those illegal workers whom we will arrest and be caned? 

  hoiyung: Let me correct one remark. Illegal workers do not get caned. But if they are overstayers, they would be caned. I do not know whether the court would give them an early hearing or not. What Mr Chiam has said is purely speculation and I am also hypothesizing that if the court gives them a hearing date in June, what happens to the workers here in the meanwhile. So I think it is only fair that they go back first. 

  Mr Goh Choon Kang (Braddell Heights): Point of clarification, Sir. Can Mr Low tell 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Yes, we will allow them to stay provided we know the date of hearing of the trial. But if it is only for setting a date for the trial, then we actually do not know how long that it is going to take. So we must be reasonable about this. I am not jumping into conclusion that every foreign worker who overstays or who works here and has a dispute with the employer will commit crime. No, I am not. But neither am I so sanguine as Mr Low that these workers will not get into trouble. 

 What has happened to the absconded Indian worker? I do not know. He might have gone back, or he might have smuggled himself out. He might still be here. He might be working illegally. He might have committed a crime. So I cannot be so sanguine as Mr Low to presume that all foreign workers are of good behaviour. Neither am I saying that all foreign workers commit crimes. But here I have an instance where a worker, given a Special Pass to remain here to pursue a civil case, had absconded. No amount of undertaking by any counsel can ensure that his client will not get into trouble. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam hits the point correctly. Indeed there are workers who will abscond even when they are working legally and this is all the more reason for the Immigration Department to be very strict. It just proves my point. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I do not agree with Mr Chiam because the Immigration Department has been very patient. It has given these workers a lot of time. Since the last employment, they were allowed to remain here for three months. Three months is a reasonable period. 

  Encik Mohamad Maidin B P M: I want to know more from Mr Ling with regard to his comparison of the health care provision in Singapore and Hong Kong. Mr Ling mentioned 1.2% for Singapore and 5% to 6% for Hong Kong. In his research, can he inform us what is the figure of the per capita allocation for the residents in Hong Kong as compared to Singapore? What I mean, Sir, is that 1.2% or 5% can be misleading in the sense that if I have $100 and I distribute among 10 persons, each one would get $10. But if I distribute $1,000 among 1,000 people, each one would get $1. That is the difference I wanted to understand. 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I seek further clarification from Mr Ling? He asked for more Government expenditure. Maybe he can tell us specifically what will be the objective he hopes that Singapore will achieve with more health care expenditure, because he seems to suggest that a longer life-span and lower infant mortality are not the standards. He just painted with a very broad brush by saying that we want to spend more on the unfortunate and the poor. But I think the Government needs to 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Ling has not replied to my questions about per capita allocation and whether the money, as he said, is good to provide health care there in Hong Kong and other countries, and why is it that they have to allocate a higher percentage of their GDP to provide health care to their population. 

  Mr Chew Heng Ching (Eunos GRC): Sir, the issues which Mr Ling has brought up are not new in this House. I am sure these issues have been brought up in the past over and over again. I am sure Members of the GPCs for the various Ministries will again address these issues in the course of their speeches. But I would like to add one comment. As an economist, I know it is always difficult to use statistics to compare inter-country achievements, expenditure patterns and tax structures because statistics can be misleading. When we quote statistics, are we quoting them in real terms, in current terms, in what currency? I think this has to be made known before we disclose any statistics. 

    Let me give you an example. A resident of a 1-room or 2-room flat has an income of $800 per month. If his income is more than $800, then it will not be possible for him to live in a 1-room or 2-room rented flat. If his annual income is, say, $10,000, 3% is $300. From the 10% rebate on income tax given by the Government and the rebate on the S&C charges, the benefit he gets is more than $300. So the net income is more even after paying his GST. When Mr Low criticised the GST and the Budget, he should have thought more carefully along this line. He was wrong in his calculation, just like hoiyung: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, for allowing me to join in the debate. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Low participated in the last elections. Mr Chiam has participated in three elections. In fact, Mr Low has also participated in more than one election. If he has ever come across a case where the presiding officer had not behaved properly, he should let us know. If there are cases where the presiding officer has done something and he, while present, did not know whether it was proper or not, because he had not been briefed by us, then I hope he will let us know also, and we will brief him. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, do you like to withdraw your amendment? We are approaching "guillotine" time. 

    Mr Chiam claims that there has been no recognition for NS men since NS was first introduced many years ago until 1990. I am sure Mr Chiam does support these new initiatives that the Government has taken to recognise National Servicemen and he has said so. 

  hoiyung: As regards booking in and booking out in uniform during in-camp training, I am not sure that it is such a major issue. I am not sure what is the motivation behind Mr Chiam asking this question. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2), Mr Chiam. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, first, Mr Chiam has asked some general questions as well as some specific questions. As to the general 

  hoiyung: Amendment No. (3), Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, would you like an answer because we are approaching "guillotine" time? 

  Assoc. Prof. Ho Peng Kee: I will reply to Mr Cheo's question. His point is on the granting of longer term visas to foreign spouses of Singaporeans. It is true that the Immigration Department does give long-term visas which are renewable in duration for a few months to a year. But there is a minimum, and a Singaporean spouse must have proof of gainful employment to show that he can support his wife in Singapore. I do not think that we are asking too much by insisting on this condition as the Immigration Department must satisfy itself that the foreigner will not be a burden to the State. 

    Sir, in all likelihood, the cases that Mr Cheo talked about difficulty in getting long-term visit passes, are situations where the foreign spouses could not get the pass because the Singaporean husband was unable to show proof of a steady income or any income. Let me assure Mr Cheo that the Immigration Department is not heartless. Based on its record, currently, there are about 5,000 foreign wives of Singaporeans residing in Singapore on long-term social visit passes. 

    Members will remember that I mentioned in this House before that Mr Low Chuck Tiew contributed some of his paintings to the Hong Kong Museum. I met Mr Low Chuck Tiew a few months ago and I found him a treasure house of knowledge about Chinese calligraphy and Chinese arts. His depth was marvellous. So I invited him to be an adviser to our Asian Civilisations Museum, and he has accepted. This is the way we will do it. We will co-opt expertise where they are available. We will train where we can, and we will recruit where we can. In this way, we will maximise the chances of success for our entire effort in heritage. 

  hoiyung: Do you want to reply, Mr Low? 

    Sir, on the question of consultation, Mr Chiam was wrong to say that the PAP does not go around consulting. It is not the PAP that goes around appointing Members of the Select Committee. Parliament, at the beginning of every session, appoints a Committee of Selection. The Committee of Selection will then decide on the Members to sit on any Select Committee that is to be appointed. So it is not the PAP that is involved. Since we have Opposition parties in Parliament, it is only natural that, from time to time, it will have to include Members of the Opposition in the Select Committee. If not, they will say that all this is a PAP show. 

    Now that we have included both of them, one has decided to opt out. Well, so be it. At least, we have made a point that we have not forgotten Mr Low of the Workers' Party. He is still in Parliament and there is also another party in Parliament, and he represents a segment of Singapore (Hougang people). Therefore, he should be in the Select Committee. But for some strange reasons, it is not a question of party loyalty, it is a question of what he believes in. It is not a question of freedom of choice either. By standing for election and coming into Parliament, you have undertaken to carry out all the duties that are assigned to you by Parliament. And when you are appointed to the Select Committee, it is the duty assigned to you by Parliament. Therefore, you ought not to opt out of it. 

    Dr Chee Soon Juan, an SDP candidate for the Marine Parade GRC by-election in December, came across to me, at least, as a very clever politician. He projected himself as David taking on the might of Goliath, the PAP. He projected himself as an underdog and even went ahead to compare himself to Cdre Teo Chee Hean, both being new members then. He talked about the promotion that Cdre Teo was to get and the sacrifices that he had to make and probably even the risk of losing his job as a lecturer in NUS. 

    The Hon. Prime Minister, Mr Goh Chok Tong, had dismissed his fears, saying that NUS would not fire him just because he is an Opposition candidate. Dr Chee had since, what the SDP has termed a sterling performance, been elected Assistant Secretary-General, second probably to hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to thank the Leader of the House for lifting the Standing Orders to allow Members to speak up to one hour. I would also like to thank the Nominated MP, hoiyung: 

    One evening, on or about the later half of 1990, Dr Chee received a lift from Dr Vasoo. During the drive, Dr Chee asked casually what would happen to a NUS lecturer if he joined an Opposition party. Dr Vasoo replied that he would probably be sacked, or asked to resign. In December 1992, Dr Chee took part as one of the SDP's candidates in the Marine Parade GRC by-elections. 

    In February and March of this year, there was a fierce exchange of letters between Dr Chee, writing in the capacity as the Assistant Secretary-General of the SDP, on the one part, and Mr Matthias Yao, the Second Organising Secretary of the PAP, on the other part. Before the correspondence between Dr Chee and Mr Matthias Yao could complete, Dr Chee, on 4th March 1993, was summoned to the office of Dr Vasoo, and also present, was Assoc. Prof. Ernest Chew, the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Social Science. Instead of talking about the work of Dr Chee, he was asked about the statements he made during the by-election campaign when Dr Chee commented on the absurdity in the Singapore State controlled education system whereby he had not been able to secure a place as an undergraduate at NUS but, several years later, had been appointed to the teaching staff. Dr Chee was also asked about the interview he had given to Asiaweek, a regional weekly, and The Ridge, the students' magazine referred to earlier, and Dr Chee was told that his statements were invidious. All those questions put to Dr Chee had no relevance whatsoever to his university work but were all political in nature. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, would you like to hand it over to me and I can arrange for copies to be circulated to Members? 

    I have already commented on the letter of dismissal. Then things developed very fast. On or about 1.45 pm on Saturday, 10th April 1993, the University sent one of its staff to hand a letter to Dr Chee at his home. That letter again sacked Dr Chee on the spot. But, surprisingly, the reasons given in that letter had nothing to do with the alleged dishonest conduct of Dr Chee. The University had shifted its ground and now says that he was behaving improperly because he has made instigation against the University by going on a hunger strike, by urging the SDP to put pressure on the University and probably by his general remarks. So what does it show? It shows that Dr Chee was never dishonest at any time. Now he is dismissed not on the grounds of dishonesty. 

    There are also comments about the procedure of using University funds. If a lecturer gives a treat to a friend with a University grant, is it proper or not proper? The University will probably say it is not proper. If he were an SDP Member, they will straightaway try to find fault and get him out. But you have to look at the circumstances. The person whom he gave a big dinner treat or a lunch treat may help him in his research. You have to find out the facts first. You cannot just straightaway say, "Well, because it was not used for his own purpose but used for somebody's else, he is dishonest." 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock (Ayer Rajah): May I seek a clarification? On this particular letter from the University of Georgia, could I ask Mr Chiam to give us the letter by Dr Chee to this particular Professor? 

  hoiyung: Yes. I suggest you hand it over to the Clerk of Parliament. Mr Ling. 

  hoiyung: You will not be speaking. Mr Cheo. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Peh is not giving way. Mr Chiam, could you resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Peh, are you giving way to Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, please be seated. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I remind you that you have spoken on the motion? 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, have you decided to speak? 

  hoiyung: Before you continue, I would like to say something. I must inform the strangers in the Gallery that they must be on proper behaviour at all times and they are not to indulge in clapping of any form or to interrupt the proceedings of this House. If there are any further interruptions, I shall direct the Serjeant-at-Arms to remove the strangers. You may continue, Mr Ling. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, you speak only when I recognise you. Mr Peh, you have already participated in the debate. I can only allow you to respond, but very briefly. 

    'The SDP would not ask any person to endanger his health or life for any political advantage. (Signed Chiam See Tong)' However, I believe that Singaporeans are not so easily swayed. If they were, more than 70% of Singaporeans would not have voted for the PAP in the last by-election where Dr Chee took part and failed. Yet, if it is necessary, it must be pointed out that these desperate political moves are not something that should be tolerated and Singaporeans should not be fooled and taken for a ride by it. 

    Sir, I wish to speak on the motion as I am aware of the circumstances leading to the dismissal of Dr Chee Soon Juan. I am really disappointed that an academic matter like this is turned into a political issue. It is really unfortunate, Sir, because I did not expect a turn of such an event. This is all the making of the SDP, to turn this whole issue into a political issue. 

    Furthermore, Sir, Dr Chee and the SDP have sought to question my motives. I will give the facts to rebut their allegations. I do not want to pre-empt what the Minister for Education has to say, but I feel it is my 

    Sir, Dr Chee came on 7th December 1992 to inform me about his candidature on the SDP ticket. He came to see me as a friend. I have always treated him as a friend and a colleague. I was open and honest about his participation in politics and I had always treated him as a friend and a professional colleague. I had no malaise against him. He knows it. It was an academic contact, a friendly, informal discussion between me and him. He was seeking advice. Our discussion was cordial and I interacted with him as Head of the Department in the academic context. But later I discovered that he came with a political motive. 

    Incidentally, Sir, in The Straits Times of 6th April 1993, Mr Chiam was reported to have called on me to return the tape to Dr Chee. He said, "By taking it, it is theft, you know." He does not know what he is talking about. He said, "It is his property and Dr Chee is entitled to it." I wish to 

 inform Mr Chiam and hon. Members that both the tape-recorder and the cassette are the property of the Department of Social Work and Psychology. They were purchased with University funds and allocated to Dr Chee for departmental use. Therefore, I did nothing wrong in retaining the tape after Dr Chee had surreptitiously tape recorded not one but two conversations with me and had also lied when he denied he was recording our conversation. I believe Mr Chiam owes me an apology. I saw the tape, I could recognise it. My Department has got vouchers to support the kind of tapes we buy and the tapes he used for recording. So we stand by what we have done and what I have said. 

    If you look at Annexes A-1 to A-6 you will find the copies of consignment notes and invoices filed with the Department of Social Work and Psychology. These are all filed with my Department. They are carbon copies. Annexes A-7 to A-10 are copies of the original filed at the Bursar's Office. So I produce them because Mr Chiam says that I have doctored them here and doctored them there, that the receipts are not correct and there are some flaws in them. But they are all public documents which can be produced in Court. The Court can verify them. We have nothing to hide. They are all there. 

    Sir, all the Annexes "A" show all the invoices and bills that are available. Mr Chiam says that I have covered up one part of it. I covered up one part of it to specifically indicate to Dr Chee what he had sent to make sure that he knows what it is. Knowing him, his arguments could turn out to be quite different. So you have got to show specific things. But there is nothing to hide. They are all there. They can be challenged. I am not afraid of showing all these documents. I can be challenged in the court to verify all these documents. They are authentic bills which have been filed. 

    Members of my Department, both staff and students, who know me well, will tell you that I am not a vindictive type of person, or even a combative person. In fact, I had refrained from making any press statement until Dr Chee and the SDP sought to turn this into a political issue and attacked my motives. It is the SDP who has made this simple academic matter into a political issue and, today, they are side-tracking the whole thing into 

    This matter started as a disciplinary matter between an employer, the National University of Singapore (NUS), and its former employee, Dr Chee Soon Juan. But Dr Chee and his political party, the Singapore Democratic Party, have politicised the issue. They have questioned the integrity of the NUS and attributed his dismissal to political motives. Dr Chee has asked the SDP to put pressure on NUS to withdraw the charge of dishonesty against him, and the SDP has done so through various press comments. 

 Service, he could have asked for arbitration as provided for under clause 17 of the Agreement for Service with the University. If he thought NUS' press statement or letters had defamed him, he could sue NUS for defamation, as he had publicly threatened to do. He has done neither. Instead, he has impugned the motives of NUS and sought to work up public feelings against the University. While on leave and receiving remuneration from the NUS, he launched a political attack on the University, declaring himself on hunger strike. He has asked a political party, the SDP, to put pressure on the NUS to withdraw its charge of dishonesty. Such actions by Dr Chee are calculated to bring NUS into disrepute and are wholly unbecoming of a staff member. The NUS cannot ignore such gross misbehaviour which aggravates his original misconduct. 

    Sir, the NUS is fully justified both to terminate Dr Chee's contract for dishonest conduct and subsequently to dismiss him for gross misconduct. NUS must maintain high standards and cannot condone such flagrant misbehaviour from any staff member. The fact that Dr Chee is the Assistant Secretary-General of the SDP is irrelevant. 

    Now that the facts of the case have been revealed, we should ask the SDP whether it still condones Dr Chee's dishonesty and misconduct. The SDP said in its press statement of 1st April: 

    'The SDP and its Secretary-General have full confidence in Dr Chee. Dr Chee has taken his decision (meaning the hunger strike) because, as a highly principled and deeply religious person, he passionately believes in the truth and in justice which has been denied him.' 

    The SDP and Dr Chee have turned a straightforward disciplinary matter 

 between NUS and Dr Chee into a political issue. Is the SDP so anxious to make political capital out of this case that it fails to differentiate between right and wrong? The SDP must make its position clear so that the public can judge the party for what it is. What is the SDP's view of Dr Chee now? 

    Members have raised a few points which I would like now to explain. The first point raised by both Mr Chiam and hoiyung: Firstly, on this question of the tape, I have to determine really whose property it is. If it is the property of the University, then I certainly owe an apology to Dr Vasoo. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, I sympathise with Mr Chiam. He is in a very difficult position. He is a good lawyer and he tries to make a good case. He sets out all the facts. Alas, he has got to defend himself. I will be very generous to him. Maybe he had not known the full facts beforehand and so he had been misled. He had opened his mouth too soon in public. He saw that there was a case for him to attack the PAP. So he went for it. Now he is in a fix. 

 and justify his reasons. I think Mr Chiam should take a deep breath, look at the full facts and decide carefully before saying anything else. 

    I have been studying Dr Chee's behaviour during the by-elections. I see him as a young politician in a hurry. He knew how to win the crowd. He knew how to do this. He must win over their emotions. The topics he selected to speak on must therefore be simple bread-and-butter issues, especially on the needs of the poor and how Government policies have made them poorer while at the same time the Government gets richer and those who support it or are associated with the PAP will also be richer. He saw the big crowd at his rally as a measure of his success. They warmed towards him because he is a fresh face in politics, with a university degree and dare to talk and criticise the PAP. I can imagine he felt great and thus develop a sense of self-importance because the SDP was praising him, even over-shadowing Mr Chiam. The media was quoting him and the rally crowds were cheering him. I sense that because he was so captured by the tremendous response, the sudden thrust to achieving greatness, he lost his sense of judgment and reality. He became a victim of his own psychological training. 

 response, made him to challenge authority, his immediate superior, his University, his own Party, his family's attempt to stop him, on embarking on his hunger strike, and even has the audacity to urge the SDP to pressure the University. He had his delusions dented after the by-election results when the Prime Minister won by more than 70% of the votes. I am sure he must be wondering how the big rally crowds turned away and rejected his politics of envy. Therefore, this attempt at hunger strike had also a hidden political motive to try and recapture lost political ground and self-importance. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, even Mr Chiam has been put in a tight spot by Dr Chee's hunger strike. He did not want to debate this in Parliament. There was plenty of time for him to file an adjournment motion. But, I guess, Dr Chee's case was not strong enough for him to make this adjournment motion, but he left it to the Nominated MP, hoiyung: 

 dismissal and deplores the SDP's action in politicising an internal NUS disciplinary matter, and pressuring NUS to rescind its action against a dishonest staff member.' 

    Sir, before I conclude, may I ask Mr Chiam to show me the letter dated 8th April sent by Dr Chee to Professor George Hynd. I think it is very, very important, because I want to find out the contents of that letter, and I can see there could be relevance to this reply from research Professor George Hynd, University of Georgia. 

    `and deplores the SDP's action in politicising an internal NUS disciplinary matter, and pressuring NUS to rescind its action against a dishonest staff member'. 

    So, where is the evidence that the SDP is trying to make political capital out of this and to pressure the NUS? I think 

    Sir, Mr Chiam asks: where is the evidence that the SDP is bringing pressure upon the University? In fact, my recollection is that the SDP issued a statement, apart from whatever they might have said about the hunger strike, that the NUS' actions were vindictive, it was vindictive action on the PAP Government, and asked the NUS to reinstate Dr Chee. 

    I would like to ask him now: does the SDP no longer insist on that position or does it still stand by that statement? Because if he stands by that statement, that is the evidence of bringing pressure on the University. 

  hoiyungasked the SDP to pressure the NUS. So where is the evidence? There is no evidence at all. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: My question of Mr Chiam was whether after having heard everything, Dr Vasoo's detailed explanation and the detailed statement of the Minister for Education, Mr Chiam still insists that the NUS reinstate Dr Chee, as was insisted upon by the SDP in its statement. 

  hoiyung: Does Mr Chiam also withdraw the statement he has made to the press that this action by the NUS is politically motivated and that this shows it is vindictive action on the part of the PAP? 

  hoiyung: I understand, therefore, what Mr Chiam says is that he stands by the statement. 

  hoiyung: In that case, he should not ask of Dr Tan Cheng Bock what evidence is there that the SDP tried to turn this into a political issue. 

    'The Singapore Democratic Party last night came out in full support of sacked University lecturer, Chee Soo Juan, to back his claim that his dismissal was politically motivated. And the statement was signed by party chief, Chiam See Tong.' 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Can I just clarify one point? Mr Chiam keeps claiming that this termination was just an ordinary contractual thing. Both parties are not happy, so there is the right to terminate. Let me just read a paragraph from this letter of termination dated 18th March 1993, which was released to the press and published in full: 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: No, Sir. They provided a doctor to check on Dr Chee daily and they paid for his bills. He was a doctor who neither belonged to the SDP nor the Workers' Party. But they also said in the press statement: 

    'Contrary to media reports, the SDP and its Secretary-General have full confidence in Dr Chee and have always supported Dr Chee in the sincerity of his actions.' 

    'The SDP sympathises and respects the deep conviction and belief of Dr Chee in his present course of action.' What is this present course of action? The hunger strike. What does all this tantamount to? Condoning, encouraging, manipulating or abetting? I do not know. 

    Sir, the SDP has politicised the whole issue and has tried, unfortunately, for them but, fortunately, for Singapore, to make Singaporeans believe that the hunger strike is the right way and the only way to redress this issue. I quote: 

    'The SDP believes that Singaporeans are now enlightened and will take note of what Dr Chee is doing for the long-term good of Singapore. We were asked to believe that hunger strikes are the way to redress whatever we feel is wrong and that is being done wrong to us. This is for the long-term good of Singapore.' 

    Dr Chee goes even further. As first Assistant Secretary-General, SDP, as I have said, it is equivalent to a Deputy Prime Minister, to galvanise support for himself and when talking of political realities in Singapore, he asked "whether Singaporeans want to live with this aspect of Singapore's political life?" Here, he was talking about being victimised, etc, and if not, to take concrete action, like himself, to change it. What is this concrete action that he is talking about? Hunger strike. 

    Sir, on 8th April, in reaction to the SDP's statement, Dr Chee urged the SDP to put pressure on the NUS. Is this the political system we want to adopt? Next time, what will happen? If a Member, or anyone of us, or a Member of the Opposition is not promoted in a department whose Head may, unfortunately, again happen to be Dr Vasoo, he will be accused of being politically motivated. If someone cannot find employment in the University, it is political motivation. If someone cannot find admission to a junior college, it is political motivation. Where will all these lead us? 

    Sir, the reaction of the PAP shows that this whole affair is politically motivated. Firstly, let us note that no PAP MP, besides Dr Vasoo in his capacity as Head of Department, commented on this whole affair. Mr Chiam, unfortunately, was beaten by hoiyung: Are there any more Members who would like to speak on the amendment? Yes, Mr Koo. 

    Listening to Mr Chiam, there is a fallacy in his logic. He says Dr Chee's employment was terminated under clause 4(a) and he says that that is a contractual termination. Since there is a contractual termination, therefore, there cannot be any allegation of dishonesty. That is Mr Chiam's reasoning. 

    What Mr Chiam has to distinguish is between the act of termination and the reasons for the termination. The act of termination could either be contractual or by summary dismissal. The reasons for the termination have been repeated several times in writing. And the reasons are, as we heard from the Minister for Education, the dishonesty. So Mr Chiam can say what he likes about the mode of termination. He could say that Dr Chee should have been summarily dismissed instead of being given a contractual termination. What he cannot dispute is that the University has always said that the reason 

    We have heard Dr Vasoo stating the facts. Prior to that, I was a bit more moderate in my view of Dr Chee's conduct and the way the SDP has handled it. After listening to it, it seems very difficult to justify any aspect of either SDP's conduct or Dr Chee's conduct. The following appears to be clear: 

    Mr Chiam has put forward a letter from the University of Georgia dated 12th April, after this affair broke. The letter does not help the case that Mr Chiam makes. Let us give this well, and I would say, carefully drafted letter from Dr Chee's alma mater full weight. Still, how does Mr Chiam justify the paying for the courier charges for sending the parcel by Dr Chee not to his university but to his wife's? 

    Put it this way. Dr Chee's funds could arguably, at best, be used to send the thesis for his own research purposes to his own supervisors, not for any other purpose. And without putting too fine a point on it, it was an indiscretion. I think most of us, including probably even Mr Chiam, can agree on that. 

    Let me put it in another way. Assume that it was a PAP MP who did it. Would not Mr Chiam go to town with the news? And could Mr Chiam expect the University to ignore the act? However, the problem in this case was that when confronted with his indiscretion, Dr Chee, quite unfortunately, sought to explain it away. That was very unwise. His explanation quite simply does not stand scrutiny. That is clear if you are to look at it without any bias for, or against, him. Whether you are for or against Dr Chee, at that stage, his conduct becomes unsupportable. 

    I am not sure that Mr Chiam does his case any good by attempting to draw a distinction between Dr Chee's case and the case of a lecturer who goes over to a neighbouring unit to make a telephone call. That is a distinction without a difference. 

    The debate on this motion, including Dr Tan's amendment, has to be seen in that context. The question really is: (1) Can Dr Chee's conduct be justified? (2) Should the SDP, which puts itself forward as a responsible Opposition party, support his conduct? For the reasons I have already given, I think it is difficult to support or 

 justify Dr Chee's conduct when he refused to admit his error. Secondly, should the SDP support Dr Chee? That depends simply on the question of whether the SDP can objectively justify Dr Chee's actions. Mr Chiam and his colleagues should consider the facts carefully, and reply in detail to the factual allegations that have been made. 

    But what do we have? The SDP and Mr Chiam have not until today said why they think Dr Chee is free of blame. Quite simply, on the facts until today, until Mr Chiam spoke earlier, SDP has kept silent. I have seen the press statements that have been issued by the SDP. They are noteworthy only for the fact that they are silent when it comes to Dr Chee's conduct. 

    Today, Mr Chiam gave a defence of Dr Chee's actions. What are the defences? First, he said that Dr Chee's wife's thesis was relevant to Dr Chee's work. That, with the greatest of respect to Mr Chiam, does not answer the question. It is simply avoiding the issue. Quite simply, Dr Chee was not entitled to use his research funds to pay for his wife's courier charges. 

    Second, Mr Chiam said the rules and regulations on usage of research funds do not spell out how the research funds are to be used. To support that proposition, he read out a rule which deals with how bills and invoices were to be submitted. That, again with respect to Mr Chiam, must have been tongue in cheek. Mr Chiam, a trained lawyer, must know that that is simply an administrative provision. Mr Chiam's argument is that the rule requires Dr Chee to send in his invoices for all expenses incurred by him. Dr Chee did so. Therefore, in Mr Chiam's view, Dr Chee did everything properly. Surely that is absurd. 

    Taking Mr Chiam's example, can you go out to dinner and charge it to your research account? It takes neither a lawyer nor a PhD to realise that one's research funds can only be used for purposes of one's own research. Financing any aspect of your wife's thesis falls outside the rule. 

    The SDP will have to deal clearly with that and state with conviction their stand. When they state their stand, they must deal with what Dr Vasoo has stated. The unfortunate part of this exercise is that I consider one of the most honourable and distinguished Members of this House, who has spoken on behalf of very poor people most of the time, has been defamed grossly. The SDP should face this issue with moral courage without avoidance of the issues. Instead of doing that, the SDP has simply used Dr Chee as a political football. It does not bode well for the SDP's role as a responsible Opposition. Before espousing Dr Chee's cause, Mr Chiam and the SDP should satisfy themselves that despite all that Dr Vasoo has said, Dr Chee is free of blame and has indeed been victimised. If they are so satisfied of that and can give convincing reasons for their stand, then I would be the first to say that the SDP has a duty to raise the issue, both in this House, and outside, with all its vigour. 

    Turning to Dr Chee and the hunger strike, it is a childish thing to do. If he feels that he is not wrong, he should explain himself. If he feels that the termination of his employment is politically motivated, then he has to fight his battle politically. In the next election, he can and should take the issue to the voters. A hunger strike is acceptable only when you have no other means of fighting a political fight. Where you have proper means, like contesting elections, with a possibility of winning, as Mr Chiam will testify, then you should work within the system. Not to do so will lead people to question the motive for your actions. 

 sued. Dr Chee appears to have given cost of a legal suit as one reason for not suing. Mr Chiam has had some experience on the law of defamation. He has successfully obtained damages for defamation in the past. His experience should satisfy cynics that the system can be worked. Given that, I cannot see why, if his case has any merit, Dr Chee should not be advised by Mr Chiam to sue. One asks: Do Mr Chiam and the SDP stand by Dr Chee? If they do, then why should cost be a factor? If the SDP does not ask Dr Chee to go to the court to sue the University for defamation, then one has to seriously question the SDP's own motive. One can only conclude that the SDP prefers to make political capital of the issue rather than have Dr Chee's conduct tested in court. 

    There is little purpose in turning this debate into a session for trading emotion-charged accusations which only have accidental relevance to the facts. If they are convinced of Dr Chee's innocence, the best way to test that innocence is to have a Judge decide it. Mr Chiam has spent time explaining why the University could not be sued for breach of contract. He said that there was no cause of action. Mr Chiam knows or should know that, in addition to contract, there is a cause of action in defamation. If someone says that Mr Chiam is dishonest, he will sue. Will he not? It is the same for Dr Chee. Even if he does not want to sue, there is really no need for Dr Chee to paint himself into a corner. He can even now give up his hunger strike and consider his options objectively. That is what he should do and that is what he should be advised to do. A hunger strike achieves nothing. At this stage, there is no loss of face involved in admitting one's mistake and moving on. 

    To attempt to politicise the issue without a careful look at the facts is simply quite wrong and does not bode well for a self-styled responsible Opposition. The SDP has also raised the ante of the debate by suggesting that Singaporeans of conviction cannot come into politics. And that if they do so, they will be fixed by the 

    I do not accept the SDP's actions in attempting to politicise this issue without a factual basis. It should not be condoned. I support the amendment. 

    "That this House expresses its concern over the allegation by Dr Chee Soon Juan that his dismissal from NUS for alleged misuse of his research funds amounting to a sum of $226.00 was politically motivated, and seeks clarification from the Minister for Education of the actual facts that caused Dr Chee's dismissal and deplores the SDP's action in politicising an internal NUS disciplinary matter, and pressuring NUS to rescind its action against a dishonest staff member." 

    Sir, we achieve our reputation as a corruption-free administration because we set high standards of honesty and integrity. Where public money is involved, we cannot accept lower standards. So when Mr Chiam argues about why the University dismissed Dr Chee under clause 4(a), giving three months' notice instead of gross misconduct, I think he is ducking the issue. The main point is that the PAP Government sets the tone of administration - one of high standards of integrity and corruption-free. Any misdeeds will be tackled. We leave it to individual departments and individual statutory boards, working within this tone of the Government, to design its own rules. In the University, I must say, like Mr Lee Yock Suan, they take a more lenient and more charitable view of Dr Chee's case and avoided the ignominy by giving him three months' notice of termination. If compared to the cases in URA and HDB, we would have charged him in court and sacked him. 

    So I am saying that the penalty of dismissal is not unusual in Dr Chee's case. The PAP Government sets a very high standard of integrity and honesty in public service and public administration. So let me pose this question to Members of this House and to the public: What does this episode of Dr Chee's dismissal say about Mr Chiam and the SDP's stand on the standard of Government and administration? This is the critical point. In my view, this is the main political issue involved. In this episode, the NUS is not on trial. The PAP is not on trial. What this episode will highlight to everybody in Singapore is the standard of integrity that the SDP sets for itself. I hope Mr Chiam will take this opportunity, having heard the facts of the case, to review his position and let the public know where does his Party stand on the standard of administration. To help him focus his mind, let me illustrate two situations which may well arise and which may well confront him in the future. 

    The first case. Let us say the Auditor-General discovers a case of false claims and dishonesty in one of the SDP Town Councils. Let me remind Members that the Town Council is a statutory organisation and is responsible for public money. The Auditor-General recommends that the Town Council, as the employer, prosecutes the errant employee who is an SDP member. Would Mr Chiam claim that the Auditor-General's recommendation is politically motivated? I think the residents in the SDP Town Councils have a right to know what standard Mr Chiam and the SDP intend to maintain in their Town Councils. 

    Second situation. Let us say Dr Chee Soon Juan pops up as the General Manager in one of the SDP Town Councils. I think the residents have a right to know whether he was employed on the basis of his merits in competition with other applicants for the job. Or is his appointment politically motivated? I urge Mr Chiam also to state his Party's position on this. Does the SDP treat its Town Council appointments as jobs for the boys? Does his Party believe in meritocracy and integrity in the employment of staff in its Town Councils? Is it an open system? Or is the system run by them politically motivated? 

    Let me continue. Suppose the Auditor-General audits the system of personnel appointment in the Opposition Town Councils. He is taken aback. How come all the top jobs in the SDP Town Councils are held by SDP office-bearers and members? He asked Mr Chiam for an explanation. Would Mr Chiam also claim that the Auditor-General's findings are politically motivated? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the political issue at stake today in this debate is the standard of Government and the integrity of administration. The SDP is in charge of three Town Councils. They are handling public money. I urge Mr Chiam, having heard the facts of Dr Chee's case, to review his position and state publicly for all to hear what is his and his Party's position on the 

 standard of public administration. Is he prepared to abide by the high standard of integrity and honesty that is expected by all Singaporeans? Or is his standard in fact lower, much lower? The public has a right to know. The residents in the SDP Town Councils have a right to know. Dr Chee has been proven today not to subscribe to such high standards. I urge Mr Chiam to think through the facts and to review his position. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you seek clarification in a debate unless it is something which you do not understand in his speech. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, after the Minister for Education had given his statement, Mr Chiam said, "Let us look at the facts and let us not be emotional." After the facts had been stated, and he also said that no facts had been adduced to show that Dr Chee was dishonest, I think, therefore, it is incumbent on me to restate some of the important points. 

    But, no, not Dr Chee, who, according to Mr Chiam, is a very principled man. He did not do that. From the facts we have heard in this House, Dr Chee decided to make a complete turn-around and we then have a rather incredible tale of suppression of facts, misleading information, and deviousness in a most foolish attempt to wriggle out. And I was counting the number of such attempts to wriggle out of deception and misleading statements. 

    Number four: He backdated his written explanation to 4th March. I was listening to Mr Chiam, and I heard Mr Chiam say that on 4th March he gave a written explanation on the same day. Same day means 4th March. But according to the documents distributed by Dr Vasoo, that is 

    But that is not all. Number five: Even in his backdated written explanation, he suppressed the material fact. And the material fact was he did not tell the University that the parcels were sent to Penn State for the purpose of his wife's PhD examination. Not one word about this! Mr Chiam says rather jokingly that, of course, it must be understood. You send a dissertation, it must be for examination. You ask any academic in the University. It does not necessarily follow. The point is that Dr Chee suppressed this. Because in his written explanation backdated to 4th March, this is what he said: 

    The specific issues are: First, was what Dr Chee did, and his subsequent conduct when being investigated by the University, right or wrong? Second, was the University right or wrong to terminate Dr Chee's contract? Was the University too harsh? Third, was Dr Chee right or wrong to try to seek redress by turning this into a political issue? Fourth, was the SDP right or wrong to espouse Dr Chee's cause in the way they did and put political pressure on NUS? 

 Secretary-General of the SDP. If the NUS lets him off, will that not be a signal for people less than honest to join the SDP? Is it not a signal that institutions like the NUS will have to practise double standards? 

    The question everyone is asking is why did he not go to the Courts to sue NUS for defamation. He gave no explanation and Mr Chiam, today, has not given an explanation. Mr Chiam has sought to give an explanation as to why Dr Chee cannot sue the University for the three months' notice but he has not given an explanation why Dr Chee does not want to sue the University for defamation. One can only conclude that the reason must be that Dr Chee knows the NUS is fully entitled and fully justified to use those strong words. What other conclusions can one arrive at? 

    The final issue is: was the SDP right or wrong to espouse Dr Chee's case and to put political pressure on NUS? And the actions of the SDP, Sir, are wholly deplorable. I stood up to ask whether he still stands by his statement and, obviously, he does. They have turned a staff issue between NUS and one of its 

 lecturers into a political issue. Dr Chee should have been advised by both Mr Ling and Mr Chiam, who are lawyers, that he has the proper remedy to sue for defamation. Mr Shanmugam pointed out that Mr Chiam has experience. He successfully brought defamation action and had gone on vacation on damages obtained in his suits against one or more PAP Members. But he forgot to mention that Mr Ling also has experience. Mr Ling was dismissed by the Police Force but he took legal action to challenge that dismissal and he succeeded. So both of them have personal experience in the exhaustion of remedies and the proper legal way to go about remedying a felt grievance. 

    The SDP touts itself as the alternative government of Singapore. As a result of this episode, a big question mark hangs over it concerning its position. After this episode, the question Singaporeans must ask is whether the SDP maintains the high standards of honesty and integrity which Singaporeans have come to expect from their Government, or whether the SDP compromises principles and bends rules to protect its own members, even before gaining power. 

    Finally, the question is, after all the facts have been unravelled today, will the SDP continue to harbour and support Dr Chee Soon Juan? 

    Mr Chiam took objection to my tone. My tone was one for the big picture and, that is, the truth of the matter, and the truth has come out. The smaller one is that the action taken by Dr Chee, I thought, was inappropriate and, as Mr Shanmugam said, childish. So it is for his own good and his family's own good that he should kick off the hunger strike. If he still feels not convinced with all the facts, there is still other course of action. 

    Question put, "That this House expresses its concern over the allegation by Dr Chee Soon Juan that his dismissal from NUS for alleged misuse of his research funds amounting to the sum of $226.00 was politically motivated and seeks clarification from the Minister for Education of the actual facts that caused Dr Chee's dismissal and deplores the SDP's action in politicising an internal NUS disciplinary matter, and pressuring NUS to rescind its action against a dishonest staff member." 

  Mr Speaker: You can now make your claim, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Hon. Members who support Mr Chiam's call for a division will please rise in their places? 

 Parliament supporting the call for a division. Since Mr Chiam calls for a division, I suppose he will support it. I do not know whether his two other SDP colleagues would do the same thing. 

Chiam See Tong

Cheo Chai Chen

Ling How Doong

Low Thia Khiang

    That this House expresses its concern over the allegation by Dr Chee Soon Juan that his dismissal from NUS for alleged misuse of his research funds amounting to the sum of $226.00 was politically motivated and seeks clarification from the Minister for Education of the actual facts that caused Dr Chee's dismissal and deplores the SDP's action in politicising an internal NUS disciplinary matter, and pressuring NUS to rescind its action against a dishonest staff member. 

    Singaporeans should not be apprehensive about seeking this new balance. This Government has kept faith with the people over 32 years. As a result, the people have prospered and the standard of living has gone up. The Member for Potong Pasir, however, has claimed otherwise. He claimed that his engineer friend in 1972 earned $1,600. A fresh engineering graduate today earns $1,800 and can afford much less. The Member for Chua Chu Kang has corrected him. I would like to add that unlike many countries, what our people earn in Singapore dollars have held up in value. In 1972 and 1973 when I was a student in England, the pound was strong. It was nearly S$7 to a pound. Today, it is only S$3 to a pound. I remember it was S$3 to a US dollar in those days. Today, it is S$1.65 to US$1. It was also S$3 to A$1. Today, it is S$1.20. Even more dramatic, it was S$3 to NZ$1. Today, it takes only 90 Singapore cents to buy NZ$1. 

    The Ministry of Trade and Industry has provided data to debunk assertions that people are less well off, again echoed by the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday. I am sure it will do so again. 

    Let me, however, just focus on housing where the standard of living has improved tremendously. In 1980, only 59% of Singaporeans owned their homes. Today, 90% own their homes. More recently, when I joined the Ministry of National Development in 1987, 30% of applications for HDB flats were upgraders. Today, 50% of applications are upgraders, and the numbers have not dropped. In the last quarter, HDB received 32,000 applications. If the people are less well off, as the Member for Potong Pasir alleged, how is it that HDB received so many applications to upgrade to 5-room and Executive flats? 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I am disappointed with the amendment moved by the Member for Hougang, hoiyung: Mr Low, you have no right of reply to the amendment. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I fully agree with the Member for Jalan Besar GRC that the amendment moved by Mr Low is unnecessary. Why? I believe that, as Mr Peh has said just now, most of the people of Singapore have already clearly understood what direction our society was evolving into. In the last General Election, the PAP put forward its platform and manifesto in the form of a book entitled The Next Lap. I was involved in part of the discussions and drafting of this book. To the best of my knowledge, this book gives a clear indication as to the future development of Singapore and the plans for such future development, and the direction we are heading for. These are all clearly stated in the book. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Hougang moved an amendment to the motion that this House "regrets that the Address does not set out what the Government's response is to the message from the electorate in the last elections on the kind of society best suited for ourselves." I find that the Member for Hougang has not understood clearly the import of the President's Address. The few points he raised were not entirely correct. For example, he questioned whether prices would go down after privatisation. Privatisation means that certain statutory boards or Government-owned companies would be transformed into corporate bodies to be run like the other companies in the private sector, in order to improve management efficiency, as well as their competitiveness in the market, so as to sharpen their competitive edge among the many companies in the same industry. With such competition, price would tend to be more reasonable. However, prices need not necessarily fall in cases where factors, such as removal of Government subsidy, are introduced; the real costs are higher and prices tend to go up. If the Member for Hougang thinks that with privatisation, prices must go down, then he has clearly not understood the law of supply and demand in the market. 

    The Member for Hougang also mentioned that the President's Address did not emphasise the people's contribution to our economic success. I believe that in statements, speeches of Government leaders and other publications, the Government has emphasised again and again that our economic success would not have come about without the joint efforts of our people. It is therefore unnecessary for this obvious fact to be repeated once again. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I feel that the Member for Hougang has not grasped the substance of the President's Address nor has 

    As President Wee has said, our development has entered a "New Lap". The new challenge we are facing is how to strengthen national consciousness so that we can live in peace and at the same time be highly vigilant in the world, even though we do not face any apparent crisis, and that the meritocracy we practise in Singapore will not cause us to degenerate into a selfish and subservient society. To strengthen our national consciousness, the important thing for us to do is to inculcate the correct ideology and values among the people so that they will understand that social and national interests are above individual interest, and national unity and social cohesion should be above personal interest. They should understand that we must have a nation before we have a home. When the nation is in ruin, the family will disintegrate. Before we can evolve ourselves into one nation, one culture and one language, it is right for the Government to encourage each community to emphasise its own language, own culture and its own way of life. However, regrettably, Mr Chiam told this House yesterday, that if all the races keep their own languages, cultures and ways of life, then Singapore cannot become a united and cohesive society. 

    On 8th January 1992, Mr Chiam was reported by the Lianhe Zaobao to have said that emphasizing the learning of 

 mother tongue would result in racial segregation and social disintegration. Mr Speaker, Sir, such fallacious theory uttered by Mr Chiam should never be given credence. As a Chinese, I want to learn my own mother tongue. I want to understand my culture and tradition, just like our Malay and Indian compatriots, who would like to learn their mother tongue and to understand their own culture and language. 

    The pursuit of a "Singaporean Singapore" does not mean that we have to abandon our own culture, our own language, and our roots. I hope Mr Chiam will continue to work hard to master his mother tongue so that one day when he does understand his own culture, maybe he will be even more assertive than I do in defending his own culture and his roots. I also hope that when he encounters difficulty in learning his mother tongue, he would not belittle the importance of learning one's mother tongue. 

    Mr Chiam also mentioned that lecturers and students at the universities should have more democracy and freedom. Does he not realize that parents send their children to the university to acquire knowledge so that when they graduate, they will be able to get a good job? The children are not there to shout for democracy and freedom! University lecturers are educators and academicians. They are not politicians. They are not champions for Western democracy and freedom. 

    Unfortunately, Mr Low is not here. I would like to comment on some of the points raised by Mr Low just now. Mr Low said that the President's Speech was full of compassion and that this was due to the fact that there are now four Opposition Members in Parliament. I believe Mr Low has probably not read the book The Next 

 Lap. Just now, the Member for Braddell Heights said that The Next Lap was published before the General Election, and many of the salient points in the President's Address were contained in the book. The Next Lap was not published after the General Election. Therefore, how is it possible that the President's Address has become compassionate only after four Opposition Members have been returned at the last election? Does it mean that in the past, with Opposition Members like Mr Chiam and Mr Jeyaretnam, all the Government policies and speeches were cold-blooded and grim? Is Mr Low saying that before these four Opposition Members came into Parliament, our people were living in extreme misery and sufferings? 

    Mr Low mentioned that the only resource we have in Singapore is the human resource. I fully agree with him. He also mentioned that there should be more subsidy on education. I also agree with him. However, I must let Mr Low know that among the budget allocated to the various Ministries, subsidy on Education gets the biggest share. In the past, this was the case. In the present, it is still the case. I do not know whether Mr Low is aware that our education subsidy has been one of the largest Government expenditure over the past few years. 

    On the question of preparatory classes for primary schools, Mr Low said that these preparatory classes should not be discontinued. The intention of the Ministry of Education is that it wants to concentrate on primary and secondary education, as well as tertiary education, and even vocational education. As for pre-school education, there are already some private organisations which are running it. The job should be dealt with by the private organisations. 

    Sir, before I touch on the President's Address, please let me express my concern on the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. Undoubtedly, Sir, baseless presumption is not to be tolerated within the confines of this House. Making remarks which are contrary to the truth and far from being constructive will only result in undermining the Member's credibility. What is upmost here is upholding the dignity of this House through Members being honest and honourable in dispensing their messages. 

    Sir, statements like Government policies encourage racial compartmentalisation do not stand on fact. Singapore is a country well known for its harmonious mixture of races, languages, cultures and religions. This harmonious mixture has been made possible through long-standing Government policies and let me refresh the memory of the Member for Potong Pasir on some of these policies, such as the Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act, which curbs any religious extremism and promotes inter-religious harmony. 

    Sir, if it is true of what was said by the Member for Potong Pasir that the Government has emphasised on things Chinese, then it will only be natural for the Malays wanting to be more Malay, and the Indians wanting to be more Indian. If that is the situation, it would be appropriate for me, because of my Malayness, to be standing here delivering my speech with my sarong, baju kurong, and songkok on. However, that is not the reality. 

    Sir, I hope that the Member for Potong Pasir will not take his role as the Leader of the Opposition as a trifle undertaking. He should bear in mind that his words and conduct are taken as exemplary by other Opposition Members and that any less than a cautionary approach will lead to an eventual loss of public confidence in the institution of the Opposition. 

    The Member for Hougang has affirmed my concern that this trend will be commonly adopted by Opposition Members when he made several unfounded remarks. I would like to leave it to my colleagues to finish with all the facts and figures. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir bandies the popular phrase "freedom and democracy" and uses it as a rallying call, but I am certain that no crusade will follow, for in Singapore we have both freedom and democracy. The Member for Potong Pasir did not indicate which model of freedom and democracy he meant and neither did he give any constructive comments on this matter. The West being perceived as the epitome of freedom and democracy, it is not unlikely that the Member for Potong Pasir clamoured for more freedom and democracy in the Western context. 

    Few in Singapore will disagree with me when I say that most, if not all, Singaporeans prefer the practice of freedom and democracy in Singapore as compared to that practised in the context of Western culture. I will find it hard to believe if the Member for Potong Pasir says that he disagrees with the majority. I think that the correct thing to say about freedom and democracy in Singapore is that the Government, having carefully balanced the scales of personal freedom and civic freedom, should continue to be guarantors of the freedom of the individual and the society. 

  Mr Speaker: The Member is not giving way. Please resume your seat, Mr Chiam. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Is Mr Chiam rising on a point of order? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have not heard any untruths being uttered. Could you resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, this is an order. Would you resume your seat? 

 achievement is placed on the highest pedestal, the relentless pursuit of academic excellence is an absorbing priority. The Government has done much to ensure that each Singaporean has the opportunity to realise his maximal educational potential. I am certain that if the Member for Hougang were familiar with the educational scheme, he will know that the Government does not deny any child of reaching his maximal educational potential because of his intellect. The limitation is not on the part of the Government but on the part of the individual. We must not rest on our laurels and we must continually adapt our educational system. 

    Before I leave the subject of education, I am again reminded of the remarks made by the Member for Potong Pasir who quoted Dr Vivian Balakrishnan and surmised that the university administrators, lecturers and students were on a leash. This morning, I had spoken to Dr Balakrishnan who practises in the same hospital as I do. His remarks were made in the context of raising funds for the University Endowment Fund and he had suggested that the alumni be given more say in the university administration so that there will be a sense of belonging to the University, and certainly not because there was no freedom and democracy in the university environment. The Member for Potong Pasir had further quoted out of context by saying that no great people will come from such universities in which the alumni was not actively involved. The speakers at the forum had meant that because NUS had such a short history, there was no great personality that had arisen to whom the students could look up to. However, if we were to include the years of the Singapore University and the 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have made your speech, and you have no right to speak. 

  hoiyung: Under Standing Orders, you are not permitted to make any clarification. Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: I understand Mr Low's concern, but I think I had better clarify a few points. Firstly, we do not say that GST is not regressive. It is recognised that the lower income group spends more or proportionately more on their essentials. That is why we have designed the package, precisely to offset this. And we can afford to do this. The figures will show that we are giving back more than we think the GST is going to collect. I can show you the actual figures. We can show you the calculated figures for the impact of GST on different income groups of families, and the amount of rebates given more than offsets this because of the possibility of calculation or statistical error. So it is a general package designed precisely for this purpose. His concerns are understood and they are being addressed. 

    Secondly, Mr Low says that civil service costs have gone up. Indeed, they must, because the bulk of the civil service costs is wages. Are you suggesting that we should freeze civil service wages? 

  The Minister for Trade and Industry (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, before I speak to give the Government's response on the recommendations of the Cost Review Committee, I would like to ask Mr Low some clarifications. He has said earlier in response to Dr Hu that he has listened and understood what has been said, but that he still holds certain views. I assume these views are based on sound arguments and on facts. In the case of the CPI, he has made the point that the CPI does not measure the cost of living. I think the Report does admit that it is so. 

 And the Committee did ask various people to try and work out a cost of living index. In fact, one such index worked out by a university lecturer showed that the inflation in the cost of living index was even lower than the CPI. I assume that Mr Low was there. He must have participated in the discussions. He was told that no country in the world has a COL index and he was asked to suggest a methodology. Has he got the methodology or does he accept the discussions in the Committee? I would like to get a clarification on that first. 

 says the housing rental component is not reflected accurately. I think Mr Low knows that the Committee did make a simulation and asked the Statistics Department to do a calculation to reflect market rentals. And it showed that, in fact, the impact on the CPI was very small. Does he accept that? 

    The other point, I think, Mr Low made, which I would also like him to clarify, is that he says the CPI is based on expenditure and not on income. I assume that his concerns are more with the lower income group. Would he agree that in the case of the lower income group, the expenditure will in fact reflect quite accurately the income? Because the lower income group tends to spend all that they earn. 

  hoiyung: But the impact is less. Because the Committee did make another calculation to show the impact of CPI on the 1-roomers, 2-roomers, 3-roomers and so on. And it showed that the CPI for the 1-roomers, if we assume that they have a lower income, was in fact lower. Therefore, I want to ask Mr Low: does he accept that the CPI, as published, in fact, over-estimates the inflation for the lower income group? 

  hoiyung: That is precisely why the Committee tried to make a separate calculation for the 1-roomers. Agreed, the CPI is an average, overall macro indicator. But what we are trying to ask ourselves is whether this indicator over-estimates or under-estimates the inflation for the group that Mr Low and others are concerned about, ie, the lower income group. First of all, my point is that the lower income group's expenditure and income are very close. In fact, they coincide. 

    Second, in the case of the lower income group, the weightage of items like food is very high. In fact, the prices of those basic essential items have gone up very little. Therefore, the actual inflation suffered by the lower income group is lower than the CPI and that was shown by the Committee's calculations on the 1-roomers, 2-roomers, 3-roomers and 4-roomers; and the impact on the 1-roomers was the least. Mr Low participated in all the discussions. If he did not agree, did he challenge? Did he come out with alternative figures? 

    There is another point. I really like to understand Mr Low's thinking. I think it is important for me to understand because he might represent some people who really do not understand these things. He makes the point about the CPI and the GST. It is in page 188 of the Report. I like just to understand what he actually means. It is on "The Need To Have A Cost of Living Indicator". In that Report, he said: 

    `... CPI, given its limitation as a macro indicator, will not be able to fully reflect the impact of the broad based GST on households.' That is the point that Mr Low makes, Sir. Am I right in understanding that Mr Low means here that the CPI would not show or would under-estimate the impact of the GST on households? In other words, the GST has a greater impact than what the CPI shows. Is that what he is trying to say? 

  hoiyung: I understand you now. He has divided the impact over two periods, the first five years and the next five years. In the first five years, the CPI will over-estimate the impact of GST. In fact, the GST impact is less. Because for the lower income group especially, the GST will be completely offset or, in fact, more than offset by various subventions, grants, rebates and so on. In the first five years, the CPI will, in fact, show more than what is the actual impact of GST. Mr Low accepts that. 

    For the next five years, if the Government withdraws all these concessions and the Finance Minister has already said that it will not automatically be withdrawn, there will be a review, but assuming for the moment that it is withdrawn in five years, does Mr Low think that in the light of what has happened over the last 10, 15, 20 years that we can safely assume that there will be a real income growth of about 4% a year for the next five years? In fact, it may be higher, but at least 4%. 

    In the 1991 General Election, Mr Low argued repeatedly and forcefully in election rally speeches that costs were sky-rocketing in Singapore, and that people could no longer afford basic necessities. Let me quote some of the things that he said. In a speech he made on 22nd August 1991 in a rally in Bukit Merah, he said this in Mandarin and I assume the translation is correct: 

    Mr Low has sat in the Committee. He has seen the price increases. He has been shown figures of wage increases. Does he still hold on to this? In another speech in Hougang, he said, "What has happened to people's life? What has happened to the people's life after Singapore achieved growth in the economy? Why are the prices of commodities all gone up?" He has looked at the figures of basic essential prices. What is his view? 

    I think Mr Low should explain to this House and to all Singaporeans why this has happened. Perhaps, after all these studies in the Committee, he now realises that his earlier views were mistaken, that there are some technical problems with the CPI, but basically the CPI is a true measure of price changes; people's incomes have gone up higher than prices and the wide array of statistics in the Report, I hope, convinces him that Singaporeans have benefitted. Even the very low income groups, their possession of consumer durables, which is also indicated in the Report, if we had used only one measure, is more than enough to prove that in fact people's lives have improved. 

    Does he agree that, after studying the matter in the CRC, incomes have in fact gone up more than prices? If so, should he not publicly apologise to Singaporeans for misleading them and creating unnecessary alarm? I think Singaporeans have a right to know. Would Mr Low like to reply? 

  hoiyung: Thank you, Mr Low. But that was not what Mr Low said in the speeches in the Elections. He did not say Singaporeans are not enjoying Swiss standards of living. That was not what he said. But I am glad that he has now admitted that, in fact, everybody is better off. Of course, the wage increases of those at the bottom are less. But the important thing is: are they better off? Wage increases of everybody cannot be the same. But is everybody better off? 

  hoiyung: But my point, and I think Mr Low has admitted, is that, in fact, wages increase more than the costs. That is the point. 

    Lastly, I would like to appeal to the Opposition Members, especially the three SDP Members, not to be obsessed with criticising the Government or echoing mindlessly the misconception of some of our people on the perception of the high cost of living or, worse still, further distort these misconceptions, but to concentrate on spreading the message on the importance of good finance planning, not to be over extravagant and to spend their money wisely. I am sure the battle to contain the increase in the cost of living can be won. This is of utmost importance to the future of Singapore and should be above party politics. 

    For me, the greatest disappointment is the debate of the two SDP Members of Parliament. Unfortunately, the two leaders are not here now. Given the opportunity to state their stand, I think they have failed to do so. They did not take the opportunity to use the basis of the CRC Report to even make suggestions on what is their stand and what are their recommendations. We do not expect them to produce a report, like what has been done by the CRC, with the full support of Ministry officials and a wide cross-section of society. But, at least, I thought they could have actually used 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to ask Mr Cheo two points. Firstly, he said that there was a loss in foreign exchange when we bought water from Johor. What is the connection between the two - the loss of foreign exchange and the purchase of water from Johor? 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang (Jalan Besar GRC): May I seek clarification, Sir, from Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang: Sir, I have four questions to ask Mr Chiam. First of all, I wonder how Mr Chiam will reconcile the fact that a country having surpluses means that the people will have a tough time ahead. 

    Fourthly, he talked about upgrading of old estates. I think the Prime Minister already mentioned before that all of us have got to queue. I do not think Mr Chiam would like the Government to carry out upgrading projects in the four Opposition wards and not in the other PAP wards. All of us have got to wait. So be a bit more patient. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am still not convinced with Mr Chiam's answers. Since he cannot answer me on how to 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, the debate has ended. If you have any further queries, I suggest you raise it in the Committee of Supply. 

    Mr Low has also asked about the expected returns from the park. Sir, in terms of physical development, this is strictly a commercial venture involving listed as well as non-listed companies. 

    Mr Low also asked whether there are problems. Sir, the developers face typical problems associated with a large and complex development of this nature. On the Chinese side, there were regulatory issues to resolve. However, because this is a project supported by both the Singapore and Chinese governments, the Chinese side was able to resolve these difficult issues very quickly. This is why so much progress has been achieved in a short time since February 1994 when SM Lee and Vice-Premier Li Lanqing signed the agreement on the joint development of SP. 

    Sir, Mr Low and Mr Goh Choon Kang argued that since the investments in power plants and infrastructure have already been made, there is no need to treat these investments in a commercial manner, ie, there is no need to raise tariffs. 

    Let me remind the House that non-domestic consumers use 82% of all electricity generated. Among domestic consumers, the better off the family, the more electricity they consume. Let me quote some figures. A household in a 1-room HDB flat uses about $15.50 of electricity a month. A 3-roomer, double that, at about $32 a month. A HUDC household, more than double that of a 3-roomer, at about $74 a month. And private home owners, again almost double that, at about $124 a month. So if we subsidise electricity, as Mr Low and Mr Goh have suggested, we would in fact be subsidising a key factor of production, encouraging over-consumption of energy, and creating serious misallocation of resources. 

  Mr Yeo Cheow Tong: Sir, Mr Low asked whether with competition in the future, we can expect tariffs to be lower. He should realise that with inflation, with higher labour cost, with equipment prices escalating at about 5% a year, it will be very difficult for any utility company to promise lower tariffs. But what we can assure Singaporeans is that because of competition, any tariff increases can be expected to be lower because the different companies will be competing to offer lower prices. So compared to no competition, I think the tariff increases must be lower than it would have been otherwise. 

  2.25 pm. We still have quite a number of Members who want to speak and I think we should allow them to speak first. If there is still time left before 2.25 pm, I will then allow Members to seek further clarification. May we proceed with Mr Low for his next cut? 

    Mr Chiam commented about our productivity movement and also mentioned about the need for quality improvement of our labour force. Sir, I have explained the importance of improving productivity to enhance our competitiveness. A very important component of improving productivity is really the training of our human resource, ie, the development of manpower. The reason for the low educational level of our workforce is historical and, over these years, we have implemented various programmes to try to raise the educational level of our workforce and upgrade their skills. And we have made progress. If you look at the figures on the total factor productivity in the 70s, our TFP growth was negative. But this had improved. From the 80s to 90s, the total factor productivity growth had gone up to 1.1% and from 1990 to 1995, the TFP growth had gone up to 2%. So actually we have made progress but, of course, more can be done. 

    Mr Chiam has made some specific suggestions like introducing compulsory education, and so on. These are issues and suggestions which the Member can bring up when we debate on the Ministry of Education's budget. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, could you ask your question? You are making a speech. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: I think Mr Chiam has not heard the answer. First of all, a motorist has a parking offence notice on his windscreen. If he has not received that, or he claims he has not received that, he has a registered letter informing him of his offence. He has another reminder, if he has not received the registered letter. Finally, he has a registered letter of a Court summons. Upon receipt, he can still settle his composition fine. So the administrative procedures taken give the offender plenty of notice to settle his case. If he ignores all these and wait for the case to be handled in Court, then he must keep his parking coupons to testify that he has not committed the offence. If he ignores this, then he must take the appropriate action himself to keep those parking coupons. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I take it that the Member for Bukit Gombak is referring to the `Spyros' accident which happened in 1978. 

    The argument by the Member for Hougang that there is a disparity in terms of allocation of resources between ordinary schools and independent schools does not hold, because one has 

  In Malay): Mr Speaker, in August 1991, as the Member for Potong Pasir had mentioned, the PAP contested the General Elections by proposing Edusave as a plan to raise the educational standards of Singaporeans and to enhance our education system. 

 party to have contested the elections on a platform of plans and programmes meant to uplift the people and improve the economy. I cannot remember any other party having done the same. And it came as no surprise that today we heard the representatives of SDP and the Worker's Party opposing this programme. 

  Mr Speaker: He is not giving way, Mr Chiam. Please continue. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to thank all those Members who have spoken in support of the Bill. If I am correct, I think Mr Low also supports the Bill, although he has some queries about certain aspects, especially about the scholarship scheme. Mr Chiam did not say whether he supports the Bill, but he seems a little bit confused about certain aspects of the scheme. Maybe after clarification, he might also support the scheme. 

    First, I would like to deal with the points made by Mr Chiam that the Government has not kept its election promise. That is entirely untrue. In fact, within a short spell of two years, my Ministry has worked extra hard to put the scheme into place. The scheme is basically the same as before. There has 

 for the full four years. But, in addition, there will be scholarships for the other students who did not make it in the PSLE. So long as they come within the top 5% of the students in the school results of those independent schools, they will also qualify for scholarships on a year-by-year basis, if they have not already got the scholarship at the PSLE entry point. I think that covers mainly the points raised by Mr Low. The intention is not just to focus attention on the top 25% who enrol in independent schools. 

    Mr Chia and Mr Chiam said we made some changes to the Edusave scheme. That is true. Firstly, we introduce scholarships to enhance the competitive element. Secondly, we allow block grants to schools. There, we have not really departed from the principle. The point is that the money from the pupils is sometimes best channelled en bloc to the schools as they are best able to know what scheme to meet the needs of the students. You can either do it on an individual basis, every pupil applying on his own, which is quite costly administratively. Or else, we do it en bloc. So the idea is for the benefit of all the pupils in the schools, we will yearly channel a sum of money to the schools. The sum will average $100,000 per secondary school. But the quantum per school would depend on the enrolment. So they will get the same quantum per capita. This is the point Mr Umar raised. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, just ask your question. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the question of specific bus services that the Member for Hougang has raised, I would rather leave to the operators to answer. But, in general, there has been a conscious effort on the part of the bus operators to provide an adequate level of service, a minimum standard of service, from each of the new towns in Singapore. You 

  hoiyung: Sir, I would like to respond to some of the remarks made by the Member for Bukit Gombak. 

    As stated in the Presidential Address, we will continue to gradually increase the recovery rates for A and B1 wards, because at the present moment they are still being subsidised. So we will be doing that. I am glad that Mr Ling fully agrees with us. 

    Patients who go in to a private hospital pay between $150 and $170 only for the bed. That, unfortunately, is not what the patient actually ends up paying. If Mr Ling had taken the trouble to find out from his friends about the actual bill sizes for patients in private hospitals, he will find that the cost to the patient is not $170 but that the final bill size in private hospitals is routinely in excess of $600. This is only for the hospital portion of the service. It does not include the services of the doctors or the anaesthetists. Those are over and above what is payable. 

    Sir, the concept of Medifund is that the patients who find that they are unable to pay the fees for medical treatment can make a request for additional subsidies to be given through Medifund. The Government can take the easy way out by referring all these requests to the Ministry of Health. But we feel that by allowing community leaders to take part in this approval process, we will be able to bring the decision-making to a lower level and to a group of people who are likely to be more compassionate and who have a better feel of what is happening on the ground. So therefore the proposal to bring in community leaders into this process of determining who should be receiving the additional support from Medifund. Sir, they will in no way be involved in determining whether medical treatment should be given because they are in no position to make such decisions. So I hope that the Member for Bukit Gombak will take the discussions of issues in this House very seriously and do his basic research before coming here and making such simplistic statements. 

  Mr Heng Chiang Meng (Cheng San GRC): Sir, if you are now hard of hearing, I could understand because I was. I did not hear you when you called the Minister to speak, because sitting in front of the Member for Bukit Gombak while he was speaking, my ears are still ringing from his sound and fury - 90% sound and 10% fury. Perhaps I should make a request to you to change my seating position. 

    Earlier, Mr Chiam, the Member for Potong Pasir, asked in his speech, "What type of Singapore do we want?" Sir, it is a very good question but, unfortunately, he provided the wrong answers. Hopefully, my colleagues who spoke earlier have put him on the right path, so I will not belabour this point. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I wish Mr Chiam would not interrupt when I am speaking. 

    However, I feel that such an important issue cannot be passed without me telling him this: If we do not want to be flotsam drifting aimlessly in the ever-changing sea where fads and fashion are often taken for values, we better hold on to some ballast. What better ballast, I would like to ask him, than our own cultural roots? Like Mr Chiam, I was monolingually educated in English, and I am more familiar with Wordsworth than Li Bai. But knowing some aspects of Western cultural values from books is quite different from an emotional attachment to values when these values are acquired from our lives and loved ones around us, especially in our childhood. Coming from a dialect-speaking home, it was the stories of Yue Fei, The Three Kingdoms, Chinese operas, and such other stories, narrated to me by my parents and their generation which created that emotional spark - that spark which made all the difference between a mere story and the genesis of a value system. That is why we have to extract from our own cultural roots the strength to establish strong values. And it is only when we can establish strong values in ourselves that we can have the confidence to become good Singaporeans. 

    As a matter of fact, Mr Chiam's question, "What type of Singapore do we want?" is more than amply answered in the President's Address. In the final analysis, the end will be determined by the means, ie, the type of Singapore we inherit will be determined by how we reach there. And that is summed up in one key phrase in the President's Address - "to be a meritocratic, but not an individualistic society". For it means that in advocating a free enterprise system, despite its attendant Darwinian philosophy of survival of the fittest, we will not let the jungle rule us, but we will rule the jungle and that little bit of animal in all of us. In any society, there 

    On another point, coming back to the earlier address by the Member for Bukit Gombak, I would just like to say that, as the Vice-President of the National Kidney Foundation, I am very pleased that he somewhat reluctantly agrees that the National Kidney Foundation (NKF) is doing quite a lot for the poorer kidney patients in Singapore. But I would like to inform him that the Government has also helped a lot by providing free of charge to the Foundation its land and premises to house the patients and also by providing free of charge the services of doctors and other medical personnel. Sir, without such help, I am very sure the National Kidney Foundation will either have to raise more money from the public or cut down its number of patients. Perhaps he would like to take into consideration this help given by the Government for all kidney patients in Singapore. 

The Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) has run Potong Pasir now for three terms. Can they not provide a similar service? Remember that the PAP received its first Government grant only in 1991, some 30 years after starting its first kindergarten. Russell Heng, in another article in the Straits Times entitled "You win but you don't win fair", had this to say: 

    The Next Lap is a well considered and finely crafted document. I urge every Singaporean to read it. Its 160 pages hold forth a vision for a nation and capture the aspirations of a people. The Member for Hougang asked for the Government's response to the elections. Well, the answer to me is clear. It is to fulfil its promise to level up society by implementing the Next Lap. The vision spans 20-30 years, a time-frame which some Singaporeans cannot grasp. Shorter-term objectives are required and these the Next Lap provides, for threading through the vision are shorter-term objectives and strategies. 

    In addition, the President in his Address has continued the process of unveiling programmes which translate these objectives into reality. Vision, objectives and strategies, and programmes - indeed a laudable approach, and I may add, a serious approach. The programmes are carefully thought out and they are certainly not jokes. They may not be perfect, but they are not jokes. This morning we hear the Member for Bukit Gombak describing many of these programmes as jokes. I think this cannot be so. For if indeed they are jokes, then I am afraid more than 2 million Singaporeans have become the butt of jokes. I say this type-casting by the Member for Bukit Gombak is itself a poor, frivolous, joke cracked in bad taste. 

    Sir, many speakers have spoken on the substantive matters raised in the President's Address. As the penultimate speaker of the new MPs to speak, I wish to return to the big picture and focus on an important underlying theme - that Singaporeans should stay united and pull together to accomplish the tasks ahead. Indeed, I think pulling together is a very apt description. For indeed building a country is not unlike tugging in a tug-of-war. The attributes are common. You need strength, you need stamina, you need perseverance, you need timing, you need technique. You need to place your people along the rope correctly, in the right positions. I think, in this regard, I am sure all of us will agree with the Member for Hougang, that Singaporeans, as a people, are also important in that they are pulling together with the Government. I do not think any of us wants to downgrade the contribution of Singaporeans in this process. And you need a good anchorman in a tug-of-war, not unlike the goalkeeper in football, and finally you need balance. 

    Some may say that Singaporeans complain rather freely, sometimes negatively. How then may one complain positively? I offer three suggestions. First, balance complaints with compliments. Nothing, and no one is totally bad, not our society, not Singaporeans and certainly not our Government. For sure, it is not right all the time, but neither is it wrong all the time. In fact, I am sure Singaporeans will agree when I say that our Government is right most of the time. It must be so. Otherwise we will not be where we are today, a nation standing proud in a community of nations with a standard of living that has indisputably increased over the years, despite what the Member for Potong Pasir may say, where citizens have a sense of self-worth and respect - and I think that is important - and who are involved in the shaping of the nation's destiny. 

    On this point, I know that Mr Chiam's assertion has been decisively rebutted by Members, but let me just add my small contribution. Let us not take an episodic approach. Let us not draw a trend by referring to isolated instances or episodes or professions. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I guess I must get used to interruptions by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Thirdly, if we are complaining against an existing practice or situation, we should consider the alternatives as part of the process of thinking through. We should put ourselves in the position of the other party and empathise with his concerns. May I suggest that both Mr Cheo, the Member for Nee Soon Central, and Mr Low, the Member for Hougang, and this morning, in fact, the Member for Bukit Gombak, also raised the same point, look dispassionately at the reasons given by HDB as to why MPs cannot have offices at subsidised rates in void decks. I am sure that Singaporeans will agree that in order to maximise precious space there is a need to prioritise use, and that social and community needs should rightly have precedence over political ones. 

    In any case, Opposition Members are not the only ones who are unhappy. PAP MPs have to make adjustments too. On this point, Mr Ling talked about a contract being formed between him and the Government. Yes, I think any first year law student will know that the acceptance of an offer may lead to a contract. But in any case, without going into the nitty-gritty as to whether indeed there is a contract between him and the Government, I think all of us also know, even as laymen, that before one enters into a contract one must examine the fine print carefully before signing on the dotted line. I am afraid Mr Ling has not done this or, worse still, he has misread the fine print. 

    The second area where we should continue to maintain a balance is in our drive to discover our cultural roots. I agree with the present approach of tapping strengths that lie in our rich cultural diversity. Unlike the Member for Potong Pasir, I do not think that this approach would lead to racial segregation or, worse still, discord. Each cultural heritage has something to offer. It serves as an anchor to that community in the midst of a rapidly changing world. In our quest for a Singaporean identity, it is correct that we do not dilute these distinctives and settle for a weak vanilla flavour. Our various cultures are like tributaries originating from the sources of different great rivers, all converging in a lake, each bringing with it rich harvests of marine life, peculiar to that source, a rich diversity but one lake. When cross-fertilisation of the life forms occurs - these life forms in our analogy would represent cultural attributes - well, new forms of marine life emerge which are of a higher order, stronger, more hardy, that is a bonus. Before this happens, each marine life in itself is a rich addition to life in the lake, which is home to all. In the meantime, the lake like Singapore will develop its own distinctives because of its geographic location, because of the quality of its water and so on. 

    Sir, to summarise this third area of concern I say this. Let us continue to open up and be warm to each other as fellow Singaporeans, whether it be in the case of Singaporeans travelling, living or working abroad, or right here in Singapore, in our offices, schools, hostels, karaoke lounges, messes, indeed in public places. Let us sing our National Anthem and our community and national songs with greater gusto, and not just during National Day celebrations. Another area, let us challenge and encourage one another to keep fit. Here Mr Ling has brought up the point about kidney patients who, he would have us believe, are a neglected group. This is definitely not true. The Member for 

    Before I close, may I take this opportunity to respond to a point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He says that the Government should loosen its grip on the universities and grant it more autonomy. He claims that the Government has put the universities on a leash, and would have us believe that there is fear on the campuses. I think this allegation is unfair and certainly untrue. Moreover, it is sweeping. Like Dr Michael Lim, I feel it deserves a rejoinder. 

    Let me assure him that all is well with our universities. We are not perfect, but neither are we the stifling and mindless institutions that Mr Chiam would have us believe them to be. I am sure both my NUS colleagues and NTU staff, many of whom are engaged in important research, will take issue with him. I feel somewhat aggrieved also because his remarks do a great disservice to leaders and members of the many active student organisations on the two campuses. I believe Mr Chiam himself recently paid a visit and gave a talk to a very lively audience in the University. If the hon. Member pays a visit to my Hall of residence, I am sure he, like many guests before him, will be quite amazed with the vibrancy and vigour in the Hall. 

    The other point I would like to just mention is that our universities have indeed turned out very fine minds, including that of Prof. Tommy Koh, world-class in his chosen field of diplomacy, despite the illusory shackles that, Mr Chiam says, embrace our universities. 

    One last point is that this morning the Member for Bukit Gombak again raised a hollow cry that there are children who are qualified but are deprived of places in independent schools. I think all of us know this assurance and the Government - 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Mr Chiam, before you ask for clarification, could you please ask for permission? 

  Mr Speaker: Are you giving way to Mr Chiam? 

    But I am most upset when Mr Ling referred to Medifund. He referred our community leaders as "neighbourhood busybodies". I think this is a great injustice to these people who serve the country, who make sacrifices in terms of time, money and even family life. And there are many of them older than a lot of us. We must give them due respect as leaders of the community. 

  hoiyung: Order. Members will refrain from engaging in discussion with one another and address their remarks to the Chair. Mr Ling, please note. You may proceed, Dr Ong. 

    Of course, we did not expect the debate to end there. We expected the Opposition MPs to come and argue in Parliament that the Government had not paid enough attention to bread and butter issues. After all, Mr Chiam had gone on record saying that life in the 1970s was better than it is today. So I was very puzzled when Mr Chiam made no mention of "bread-and-butter" in his speech. Instead, he talked about the Singapore Island Country Club, which is hardly a bread-and-butter problem. 

    "Today, Singapore is a city with almost no poverty. Hong Kong may have grown as rapidly, but in Hong Kong the gap between rich and poor is visible everywhere. By contrast, I never saw anyone in Singapore shabbily dressed, and everyone appeared to have at least a passable place to live. Food is cheap and plentiful. Even low-income Singaporeans have access to high-quality medical care; [note that: "low income Singaporeans have access to high quality medical care"] doctors at public hospitals in the United States might look enviously at the public wards of Singapore General Hospital." [I think Mr Ling should read the New Yorker before he speaks in the House.] 

  hoiyung: Anyway, Mr Low, that is not a clarification. It is a request. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Bukit Gombak and his two other colleagues have made a big issue about 

 the decision of the HDB on MPs' offices in void decks. I noted on Monday that the Member for Potong Pasir, hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise in support of the motion standing in the name of the Member for Hong Kah GRC. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, with due respect to your Chair and also to Mr Speaker, it appears that parliamentary seating arrangement is also negotiable in the press. Sir, it took me three terms to make a gradual progress from the last row to the second row. I honestly hope very much that I will keep this seat, Sir. I think the unofficial Leader of the Opposition should consider that this is too trivial an issue to be raised. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam would like to know how much more funds will be invested. I am unable to tell because how much funds will actually be invested is entirely dependent on the CPF members themselves. What I can tell Mr Chiam is that with the liberalisation of the scheme, and with the introduction of the Basic Investment Scheme and the Enhanced Investment Scheme, a lot more funds will now be made available potentially, to be invested in the various instruments that I have outlined earlier on. In fact, under the Basic Investment Scheme, 740,000 CPF members will be eligible, as I mentioned earlier on. They will together have about $22 billion worth of investible savings. Exactly how much of the $22 billion will be invested, that is a decision only the CPF members themselves can make. In the case of the Enhanced Investment Scheme, 235,000 CPF members currently qualify. Together, they will have available $9 billion of investible savings. 

    Mr Low has asked on what grounds the CPF exempts the purchase of Telecom shares under the CPF Top-Up Scheme from the Minimum Sum requirement. The answer is that Telecom shares are a special category, in the sense that Telecom is a very established statutory board which has an excellent track record and the shares will be sold to the citizens at a discount, on top of which Government is going to give each citizen a $200 direct subsidy to purchase the shares. Therefore, there is very little risk of any citizen losing out in the course of purchasing Telecom shares. Therefore, we have thought it in order to exempt them from the requirement of the minimum sum. 

  hoiyung: What is the point that you are making, Mr Chiam? Mr Lim is still making his reply. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you did not participate in this debate. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you let Mr Lim finish first before you say anything. You have no right to speak on this amendment at this moment. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you return to your seat? 

    Both Mr Cheo and Mr Low asked why there is a need to revise the contribution rate to the sinking fund for the Town Councils. Let me explain. When the Town Councils were formed, the Government wanted the Town Councils to start off on a sound footing. To assist the Town Councils, the Government provided two types of grants. First, cyclical works grant. Because the Town Councils need time to build up the sinking fund, the Government will give each Town Council a cyclical works grant that will cover the cyclical works due in the first seven years of their operation. This grant will be paid in two instalments. The first instalment was paid at the inception of the Town Council. The second instalment will be paid this year and that is why they have budgeted $121 million for it. Second, operating grant. Although the Town Councils are to fund their current and future expenditures 

    Mr Cheo proposes that we let the 25% contribution rate remain, even though we know that this is not sufficient. Then when the cyclical works fall due and the sinking fund is not sufficient, the residents will be asked to pay up a lump sum to cover the shortfall. This may be okay in the case of condominiums. But in the HDB estates, most of our residents are from the lower income groups. So it is better to raise the contribution rate and build up the sinking fund gradually. That is why the Government decided to raise the contribution rate with effect from 1st April, 1993. 

    Mr Cheo asked why there is a stipulation that the increase must be at least 5% to enjoy the higher grants. The reason is very simple. The grants are intended to help the lower income families. It is a very generous grant, ranging from 32% to 135% of the old grant. If the Town Councils do not raise the S&C charges of the bigger flats by at least 5%, then what will in fact happen is that the increase in grants intended for the lower income households will be used to cross-subsidise the cost of the bigger flats. This is not the objective of the increase in the grants. That is why we require Town Councils to increase by at least 5% for the bigger flats to enjoy the very generous grants intended for the smaller flats. 

    Mr Cheo also asked why the deadline of 10th March 1993. The answer is again very simple. There is nothing sinister in this at all. We want to make the generous grant retrospective for FY 1992. In order to disburse the funds before the closing of this fiscal year, we need the response from the Town Councils before 10th March 1993. If Mr Cheo does not want the grant for FY 1992, he can well ignore the deadline. 

    Finally, before I withdraw, I will give Mr Chiam a chance. 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock: I am sorry. I apologize. I would like to remind hoiyung: Let me respond to Mr Low. In FY 1992, we budgeted, I believe, $150-odd million for the cyclical grant. In FY 1993, this was reduced to $121 million. He wanted to know why I said that the grant to the residents in HDB estates has not been reduced. The grant to the Town Councils is reduced by this amount because, if the Member remembers, last year we took away the responsibility of the CATV from the Town Councils. So previously we catered for the sinking fund requirements of the CATV in the FY 1992 budget. Now that the HDB is undertaking the replacement of CATV, that money has been transferred to HDB. 

    Mr Low also asked on what basis were the grants calculated? We set up the Town Councils in 1988/89 and we used the then prices to calculate the grants. I understand Members are concerned that since 1988 until now prices have gone up and the grants that were calculated on those basis may not be sufficient for their cyclical maintenance. That is precisely my point, and that is why I am asking Members to put more into their sinking funds so that they can fund their cyclical works. 

    Mr Low also asked why is the Government forcing the Town Councils to increase their S&C charges through this method? Let me again stress that there is no compulsion. We know costs have gone up by 20%. S&C charges have gone up by 9%. Town Councils ought to raise S&C charges to meet their requirements. If the Town Councils feel that they can meet their requirements through greater efficiency or, more probably, through a lower level of service, that is a decision to be taken by the Town Councils and they have to meet the response of their residents. But for proper maintenance of HDB estates, my Ministry's recommendation to the Town Councils is, face the facts, costs have gone up, S&C charges need to go up. The Government will help you in this increase by also increasing the grant for the lower income households. 

  hoiyung: We are running out of time, Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: The offer is made in a very serious fashion because the SDP claims that Singaporeans who buy their flats from HDB do not own their flats as they are on a 99-year lease. So we asked the SDP to reinforce its claim, that is, to prove that the claim is right, show us that the residents in the three constituencies of Potong Pasir, Bukit Gombak and Nee Soon Central believe that they are not owning their flats, in which case, he should be mounting a campaign to ask them to return the flats to us, to prove his claim that they are not true owners of HDB flats. And if they return the flats to us, we will pay them back the original purchase price and we will rent the flats to them. Since they do not own them, we will pay them back what they have paid for. This is a very good offer. You buy something, you enjoy it, and you get back the same price. Where else do you get such an offer? If you buy a shirt, you wear it for 10 years, you go back, and you can claim back the original price. 

  hoiyung: But they do not own the flats. He said they do not own the flats. So how can they sell them? My point precisely is that HDB flat owners own their flats and when they sell them, they sell them at current market price. They make hefty capital gains, they pocket their gains, and they come back to HDB to apply for a second flat, hoping to make similar capital gains. It is the SDP which claimed that HDB owners do not own their flats. So we say, okay, if they do not own their flats, you ask them to give back the flats and we will refund them the original purchase price. They have been staying in all these years for free. From now on, they stay but they pay the market rental of the flat. It is a very generous offer. Mr Chiam said they do not own their flats. I did not say it. So mount a campaign, prove that his residents feel they do not own the flats. And I will accept whatever he is able to bring up. How many will go along with him and say they do not own their flats and they are willing to return the flats to HDB? 

  The Chairman: Dr Tan, please be seated. I have not asked you. Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Cheo is digressing. The Government's land acquisition and resettlement policy is separate from the HDB home ownership scheme. We are talking about two different categories. The SDP claimed that HDB flat owners do not own their flats. I am just asking the SDP, please come forward and put the basis of that claim with tangible numbers. 

    Secondly, Mr Cheo asked how many Town Councils have asked for increase in S&C charges without this new ruling. I have answered that many times. Without the enhanced contribution to the sinking fund, all the Town Councils were under the false illusion that they were making big surpluses, even though many Town Councils have done their cash flow analysis and know that they will run into a shortage of funds in later years when they do not have enough money to pay for overhauling and repairing of lifts. But because the contribution rate was very low, everybody was declaring big surpluses and everybody felt that there was no need to increase S&C charges. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam and Mr Leong are not here. Mr Chay. 

    Mr Chiam gave the application history of the child care centre in Potong Pasir. HDB was building the centre when it received a request from MCD to meet the more urgent requirement of the Singapore Association for Mental Health. That is the reason why we allocated the space in Block 139 to SAMH. The reason is that there is already an existing child care centre in Potong Pasir located at Block 105 Avenue 1. So we thought we should cater for the needs of the SAMH urgently. But there is no decision to deny Mr Chiam of his child care centre. Once we complete the Centre for the SAMH, we will continue to build the child care centre next to the SAMH. 

    As to Mr Chiam's request that HDB relocate the child care centre to be away from the SAMH, I am afraid we cannot accede to his request because I think the Government must make a stand that we need to provide social amenities for different segments of our population and we cannot allow different groups of residents to keep requesting for these social amenities but never in their block of flats. So I think the SAMH has a right to be in the void deck of Block 139. The Ministry of Community Development assures HDB that the SAMH are people who are completely cured. They need to be integrated back into the community and, therefore, their premises should be located within the community. There is nothing wrong in having a child care centre next to the Centre for the SAMH, and we do not intend to relocate the child care centre because residents do not wish to have the child care centre next to the SAMH. Because if we do so, the next request from Mr Chiam would be that the residents in Block 139 do not want the SAMH in their void deck. Then we have to relocate the SAMH. So where do we end? Singapore is such a small place. We cannot be relocating all these social amenities to other places where residents got no complaints. 

  hoiyung: Not yet, yours is the first. Sir, let me reinforce the answer. I am not sure, as this is MCD's purview, but I believe this is the first request by SAMH, and we are catering to their request within our void decks. Let me assure the Member for Potong Pasir that there are many, many such centres in all the PAP MPs' Town Councils' void decks. 

    Mr Chiam also asked why Marine Parade residents are only required to pay 10% or up to $4,500 and under the steady state the number is now changed. There is no inconsistency. We have always made it very clear that in the Demonstration Precinct, for which there are six, the residents there only pay 10% of the cost because it is a Demonstration Precinct and we are trying out new techniques and new programmes. So all the six precincts, whether it is Marine Parade, Toa Payoh, Ang Mo Kio, Lorong Lew Lian, Clementi or Telok Blangah, pay 10%, which is up to $4,500. In the steady state, we have come out with a new ratio of payment of which the menu is decided by the residents, and they pay different amounts. If they choose the Standard Package, then they pay about $3,500, without the additional space-adding item. If they choose to have the additional space-adding item, then they pay $13,500 for the 3-room flats. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the $45,000 that Mr Chiam quotes include the space-adding item. I believe the $34,000 that he is quoting is for the Standard Package, which does not include the space-adding item. If it includes the space adding-item, I think it is over $60,000, which is the same in the old situation and now. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: All right. Why the minimum rate is 5%, I think I have given the answer to Mr Cheo. 

    Let me just take the third point given by Mr Chiam. He asked how many Town Councils have asked for increase in S&C charges and whether this poses a dilemma to HDB. Let me tell him very categorically that HDB is not in a dilemma when Opposition Town Councils apply for grants. Grants are given out according to the flat type, according to age, and is given out equally to all Town Councils, whether PAP or Opposition. So the same condition that HDB applies to the PAP, it applies to the Opposition Town Councils. So HDB is in no dilemma, whatever. You want to raise your S&C charges and you want to get the grants, you are entitled to the grant, we give it to you. 

    He said that I did not answer Mr Cheo's question about how many PAP Town Councils have asked for more grants because they are increasing their S&C charges. We have decided in MND that individual Town Councils should inform their residents the amount and the date of the increase. It would not be good for us 

    Together with Mr Low, he has also asked why in the Singapore General Hospital certain specialties do not have class C wards. Sir, many of the specialties in the Singapore General Hospital are not unique to the Singapore General Hospital. They are actually available in Tan Tock Seng Hospital, Toa Payoh Hospital and Alexandra Hospital. Therefore, rather than duplicate unnecessarily, and especially where the other hospitals already have spare capacity, SGH therefore does not have class C wards in some of these similar specialties. For example, in paediatrics, Tan Tock Seng and Alexandra hospitals have paediatrics. The Class C wards in these two hospitals have the capacity and therefore there is really no need for SGH to also duplicate it. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (4), Mr Low. You have three minutes. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Low asks which are the local and international organisations that we are providing subventions to, and why? 

 is obliged to make annual contributions to help support the activities undertaken by these organisations. We are members of these organisations because we do benefit from our participation in the organisations and the programmes put forward by the organisations. I will just take one organisation, and that is, GATT which I hope Mr Low is familiar with. Sir, GATT is responsible for measures to liberalise world trade and therefore it is very vital that we participate. Our contribution to GATT is on the basis of our share of the world trade. In FY94, our estimated share is about 1.3% of the world trade and therefore our share of GATT's total expenses would also be about 1.4%. This amounts to about $1.4 million. Similarly for the others. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, would you like to withdraw your amendment? We have run out of time. 

  hoiyung: Can I ask the remaining Members speaking on this amendment to take one-and-a-half minutes each to make their points. Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, could you please ask your question because we are running out of time. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2). Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, would you like to allow some time for the question to be answered? 

  The Chairman: Mr Cheo, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2), Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Chiam need not be surprised because Appendix D was left out from the 1994/1995 Budget book also. It is again excluded for the 1995/1996 Budget book. In fact, it has been excluded for two years already. 

    Appendix D of the Budget book contained the basic salary scales for each and every grade of civil servants, as Mr Chiam has pointed out. In addition to the basic monthly salary, officers receive the monthly variable component, the non-pensionable variable payment and the non-pensionable component. Furthermore, officers on the same grade but on different medical schemes are on different salary scales. To reflect all these 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, do you wish to withdraw your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Sir, firstly, may I thank Members for giving me very useful inputs and feedback. Mr Peh Chin Hua gave his observations and comments about some documentaries in Chinese and this subject was also taken up by Mr Cheo as well as Mr Choo Wee Khiang. Sir, the observations given on the broad range of TCS Channel 8 programmes are pertinent and probably representative of many viewers' opinions. 

    I come back to Mr Ling who blithely said that private hospitals are as cheap as public hospitals, which all of us intuitively know is absurd. But anyway, I have asked for the numbers. They are in the tables which have been circulated and they establish beyond doubt that across the whole range, Government hospitals are much cheaper than private hospitals, both for average hospital inpatient bill size per day and total average hospital inpatient bill size. The only case where a private hospital costs less than a public hospital is Thomson Medical Centre - I refer Members to the last table. That is because we are not comparing like with like. Thomson Medical Centre caters to child births. Child birth is not a sickness. The 

 duration is short. In fact, 60% of child births in Singapore now are in the private sector because young couples want to spend a little extra on themselves, a way for the man to show love to the woman, it will not usually lead to complications, they want some hand holding and we do not mind. In fact, Kandang Kerbau Hospital wants to increase its market share but I tell them, "Look, if people are happy spending their money in the private sector, why not. It does not really matter." That is the reason why Thomson Medical Centre has a lower cost because we are comparing child birth with other conditions being looked after in public hospitals. But otherwise, across the board, the data is clear. I would strongly urge the SDP to print a correction in the New Democrat for misleading the public in this very outrageous way. 

    In the Budget debate, he compared bed charges. He does not understand that some private hospitals, in order to bait and switch, deliberately market bed charges low and everything else they add on and pile on. Whereas for the public hospitals, we are very honest and straightforward. Our bed charges cover all kinds of incidentals. These figures are compiled every six months. They are updated and they are available in the Internet. Maybe the SDP should highlight the MOH's Web page in the next issue of the New Democrat. 

    At the primary health care level, the sheer number of GP clinics in an HDB neighbourhood centre ensures that residents enjoy long hours of service seven days a week and yet pay less than the cost of a meal in a restaurant to have their health restored by a doctor who has spent several years training to develop the skills and knowledge required of him. Presently, a GP starting up in an HDB estate who purchases clinic space will have monthly overheads of about $15,000-$20,000. He will have to see about 40 patients daily just to cover overheads. For new GPs it will be difficult to even make the salaries that they would have earned in a hospital in the initial years. I am surprised that Mr Ling has claimed that the GP makes a 50% profit from each visit. I am not certain what is the basis for his claim, but I am also surprised that the GPs themselves have not made any response to his claims. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (5), Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: I think a lot is attributed to the aging population today. As far as dental health is concerned, I would like to let Mr Chiam know that actually the dental health of Singaporeans is one of the best in the world, particularly among the younger population. The dentists use an index called the decayed, missing, filled 

 teeth (DMFT) index to indicate the level of dental health among the population. Our index among the twelve year-olds is 1.0 which means that on average, only one tooth is either decayed, missing or filled. It is a very good indicator. We have provided a very good dental health service in the past, and we will continue to provide a very good one in future, particularly to the school children. But the responsibility to take care of one's teeth after one has left school must rest with the individual. Nevertheless, the Government still provides dental services to the adult population and, as Mr Chiam pointed out, there are community dental clinics. 

  hoiyung: I am not sure whether the charge varies with regard to the size of the hole. What I do know is that in the private sector, no matter how small the hole, they charge a certain price. For Mr Chiam's information, in our dental clinics, there is an overall subsidy level of 50%. For senior citizens and for students or young persons under 18 years old, it is half the price. So they pay 25% only. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Low, I have told you a number of times that it is not possible. At the end of a Member's speech you cannot seek clarification. Mr Sinnakaruppan. 

    At this point, I wish to address an important issue raised by the Member for Potong Pasir three days ago. Although many MPs have already spoken on this, I still think that I would add my views as well. He had asked if the Government was for a Singaporean Singapore or for a Singapore where each racial group keeps to its own culture, language and traditions. I am surprised that he does not realise that Singapore's diversity of race, language and culture is our uniqueness and that it is our strength. A Singaporean Singapore is one where different racial and religious groups continue to live in harmony even though they may practise different cultures, different traditions or speak in different languages. It is not incompatible to have a Singaporean Singapore and at the same time cultural diversity. I am sure that the Indian community, for example, would be alarmed if they were told not to promote their culture, language or heritage. Therefore, it is important that no community in Singapore is ignored or eroded. While strengthening their own communities, the people of the different ethnic groups in Singapore must foster better understanding between each other. In this way, we would avoid racial extremism or chauvinism. 

    Contrary to the claim made by the hon. Member for Potong Pasir, the PAP has not made an "about-turn" from the basic philosophy underlying the concept of "Malaysian Malaysia". Unless I misunderstood him, the Singaporean Singapore is very much alive and being practised here. Each group is free to pursue its interests. It is the concept that underpins multi-racialism. We believe, and we practise, "unity in diversity". 

    The other option is to go along with the Member for Potong Pasir's self-proclaimed, authoritative interpretation of Singaporean Singapore. This would mean perpetuating the way of life that will lend us to be another Caribbean or some English speaking African countries. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, last year the world saw great changes with far-reaching impact. The civil war in Yugoslavia and the disintegration of the Soviet Union have confirmed the collapse of Eastern Europe. In the "Desert Storm" operation in the Middle East, the power of high-tech weaponry displayed by the United States had also confirmed the value of a wealthy nation with a strong defence capability. Following the detente between North and South Korea, the peace talks in Kampuchea have reached a certain conclusion. Having been insulated from the world for many years, Vietnam is now waving her hands at the investors from the capitalist countries. ASEAN, except the Philippines, has been progressing steadily. Over the past ten years, our per capita income has increased from US$4,000 to US$12,000. Foreign reserves have reached $30 billion. Yet, the Member for Hougang said that the wealth in the Government coffers does not benefit the people. The Deputy Prime Minister has rebutted what he has said. Singaporeans are enjoying the highest quality of life in Asia. An ordinary wage earner can live in an attractive and spacious flat while senior managers of Japan earn much higher salaries, they cannot have accommodation comparable to that of our ordinary workers. From 1982 to 1991, the inflation rate of Singapore has been maintained at a level below 4%. All this is attributable to the strength of the Singapore dollar and our strong foreign reserves. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I was amused by Mr Chiam and hoiyung: 

 Singapore's 1990 per capita GNP with its GNP in 1970, nearly US$12,000 in 1990, as compared to US$920 in 1970. But, of course, Mr Chiam will still advocate that Singaporeans are worse off today than in 1970. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you please allow the question to be answered first. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, if you insist in asking this question, I suggest you file a question. 

  The Minister of State for Education (Dr Ker Sin Tze) (for the Minister for Education): Mr Speaker, Sir, the answer to Mr Low's Question is that the Ministry of Education plans to build a new primary school at Hougang Avenue 8. The construction will be completed by the end of 1994 and classes will commence in early 1995. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Hougang has asked the projected intake of primary one students residing in the constituency of Hougang in 1993 and 1994. The Ministry of Education does not plan student intake at the constituency level. It is planned according to a new town's demand for places. For 1993 and 1994, there will be about 3,500 primary one places provided by schools in Hougang New Town and the vicinity of the new town. This will be sufficient to meet the projected demand for about 2,500 places in 1993 and 2,900 places in 1994. 

    As to whether students can go to school within the 2 km requirement, I think it is a bit difficult because of the location, building and the distribution of population. We try to provide places as close to the residence as possible. But physically, I am sure the Member for Hougang also appreciates that there is difficulty in setting up school at the doorstep of the students. 

  hoiyung: It is "guillotine" time. It is not possible, Mr Low. 

    Sir, in summary, 1991 was a historic year. The formation of the Commonwealth of Independent States on 21st December last year marked not only the collapse of the Soviet Union but also the end of the Cold War. In July 1991, the Philippine Senate rejected the renewal of the US-Philippines Base Treaty, hastening the US military downsizing which may already be underway in the Asia-Pacific. If anything at all, last year was a clear indication that we are in a period of great change and uncertainty, not a period of peace and calm, as Mr Chiam said last week. Only time will tell whether the changes are for the better or for the worse. But whatever it will be, the events of last year only reaffirm the need for a robust, flexible and proactive foreign policy. In an increasingly interdependent world, a country like Singapore depends on its international links and access - political and economic - for its survival. It is the job of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to build these links and to promote access in support of our strategy in the Next Lap for internationalisation. MFA's budget is a reflection of the important role that it plays in the internationalisation of Singapore. It is a small investment in the long-term future of Singapore. 

  The Chairman: I am afraid we are running out of time, Mr Chiam. 

  The Minister for the Environment (Dr Ahmad Mattar): Mr Speaker, Sir, when I last discussed the littering problem with the Member for Potong Pasir in this House on 26 February 93, he was adamant that his constituency did not have a littering problem. 

    Sir, if you recall, the Member for Potong Pasir, at the meeting of this House on 26 February 93, had asked me to name a block or any particular area in Potong Pasir which had been littered. I shall oblige him now, Sir, not with just one block but several blocks and with photographs too. The blocks are 101, 102, 108, 119 and 120 of Potong Pasir Avenue 1; 

  Mr Speaker: Would you like to give a copy to Mr Chiam? 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Yes, Sir. [Copy of photographs handed to hoiyung: Sir, does the Minister know that the Member for Potong Pasir had, in fact, put up warning notices to all his residents on the notice boards of the blocks of flats in Potong Pasir. I shall just read the first two paragraphs of the notice, Sir: 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Sir, the job specification given to me by none other than Mr Chiam himself is simple and straightforward. He claims that he does not have a littering problem and my job is to show 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you making a speech or asking a question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam may be interested to know that we talked to some of the cleaners employed by the contractor engaged by the Potong Pasir Town Council and they told us that in some blocks the littering is so bad that they have got to be cleaned twice a day - once at 6.30 in the morning and the other time is around 2.00 in the afternoon. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have to go into Committee of Supply. Are you asking any more questions? Please do not make speeches. 

  hoiyung: Can I ask whether the lady who came to see Mr Ling has filed a Police report? 

 whether it is a PAP MP or an Opposition MP. A lady says her modesty has been outraged. I would think the first thing she should do is to go to a Police Station. If such a lady came to me, my advice would be that she immediately goes to the NPP and makes a report. It goes without saying. But for me, as an MP, to write to the Police to say so and so has made a report, how can the Police investigate? The Police must get the first information report from the individual concerned. It is not the MP whose modesty has been outraged. Mr Ling is a lawyer. Surely, he knows that that must be the advice, whether as an MP or as a lawyer, he must give the girl. 

  hoiyung: What is the difficulty in Mr Ling, as an MP and as a lawyer, to tell the lady: "Look, this is important. It must be investigated. Make a report immediately to the Police." 

    Just look at the reporting of the last by-election at Marine Parade GRC. By reading local newspapers only for the news of the said by-election, who would know that 20,000 to 30,000 people attended the SDP election rallies, and who would know that there was such spontaneous and enthusiastic support for that Party. On the other hand, no report was made that the PAP had to transport senior citizens and others by the bus-loads to attend their election rallies. Without the organised support, PAP rallies at the Marine Parade by-election would look 

 quite empty. The issues highlighted by the SDP at the by-election were distorted and slanted. The SDP's issue of the two-party system was made out to appear that only two parties were allowed, the PAP and the SDP, to the exclusion of all the other parties. 

    On the other hand, the HDB Upgrading Programme was so touted that voters at Marine Parade were made to think that they would immediately get their flats upgraded once the PAP won the election there, which was not really the case. Despite the biased reporting, we have to give credit to the voters at the Marine Parade GRC for giving the SDP four percentage points more votes. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I do not want to be like SBC, but we are running out of time. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, we are running short of time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, could you withdraw your amendment? 

    My colleague will respond to Mr Cheo. 

  Dr Aline Wong: Sir, allow me to reply to Mr Cheo's point about Government providing for pre-school education. 

    The Government's policy is to concentrate on formal education from Primary One onwards. The provision of pre-school education should be left to the private enterprises. We have pronounced this policy quite clearly in the past. At the moment, there are already 422 education centres and private kindergartens providing pre-school education. They are generally doing a good job and in spite of what Mr Cheo said, a lot of them charge quite affordable fees, especially the PCF kindergartens, many of which charge in 

    Mr Cheo's proposal seems to suggest that pre-school kindergartens should be used as a child care facility in order to enable married women to work. I think that is a wrong use of kindergartens. Kindergartens should rightly be for the education of the child and, in practice, you will find that many kindergartens run very short programmes, either two hours or four hours, and this is by no means a solution to enable married women to work. 

    Sir, a feature article by Miss Goh Beng Choo in the Straits Times of 28th February, under the headline "A Museum That Cares", highlighted several challenges for the Singapore Museum. It reported on how the few hundred pieces of Chinese paintings and calligraphy donated by Mr Low Chuck Tiew, a local art collector, were taken care of by the Hong Kong Museum of Art. 

    The deciding factor in Mr Low's choice of museum was that Hong Kong is more committed than Singapore to the promotion and appreciation of oriental arts. An 

  In Mandarin): Sir, like Mr Goh Choon Kang, I was very distressed when some time in the middle of last year, a Singapore art collector, Mr Low Chuck Tiew donated his very precious art collection to the Hong Kong Cultural Centre. Fortunately, subsequent to this incident the Government announced that it will be making an overall plan to develop Singapore into an international art centre. This good news has immediately prompted a local couple, Mr and Mrs Tan Kim Chuang, and a prominent local architect, Dr Ho Kok Hoe, to generously donate some works of art, which have been in their personal collection for many years, to our National Museum. This illustrates the point that so long as the Government attaches importance to these works of art, there will be people donating them. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Sir, I am very grateful to Members for their great support of our museum activities. Like Mr Goh Choon Kang and Mr Peh Chin Hua, I too was very distressed when I heard of Mr Low Chuck Tiew's donation to Hong Kong. But I asked around and found out that, in fact, he did have a long association with Hong Kong and there might be good reasons why he made the decision he did. I do not think we should second guess him. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, could I urge you to hurry up because we still have a lot of Members who wish to speak? 

  hoiyung: Sir, my topic is not so exciting as Mr Chiam's, but no less important. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: The idea is not to organise children's libraries on the basis of constituencies which I know is Mr Chiam's preference, but to organise it on the basis of areas. But we should not politicise it. We are working with the PAP Community Foundation. The SDP is a political party. And I do not think we should work directly with a town council because that is politicised. But there is nothing to stop Potong Pasir or any town 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. hoiyung: 

    Mr Chiam has asked what are the reasons for revising the Minimum Sum. Is it to withhold the CPF, to delay payment, or is it to prevent inflation? What are the reasons? The reason is, as I have stated in the statement which I made on 11th March, that we want to ensure that all Singaporean employees make adequate preparation for their retirement since the lifespan is getting longer in Singapore and people are going to be in retirement for a longer period. It is only wise and prudent that, at this point in time, we should put in place some mechanism to ensure that, in the future, aged Singaporeans will be able to look after their own interest and needs so that they will not become dependent on public assistance for their survival. 

    In regard to Mr Chiam's question, what I said in my Statement on 11th March was this, and I quote: 

  Dr Wang Kai Yuen (Bukit Timah): Sir, I would also like to join in the debate on the issue of COEs. However, as I listened to Mr Ling, I did get a bit confused. So hopefully my speech will be more coherent. 

    Sir, there have been many suggestions from Mr Ling, Dr Wang and Mr Heng Chiang Meng who made a very innovative, although a bit complicated, suggestion about COEs. But the point of it all is that, at the end of the day, no matter what system we use, ultimately, so long as people want to buy a car, so long as people can afford to buy a car, and so long as this desire or demand outstrips overwhelmingly the supply that we are prepared to release in the form of the vehicle quota, then surely no matter what system we use, pay-as-you-bid, two-category system, or Heng Chiang Meng's system, it is the supply and demand that will determine the prices. 

    Finally, I would like to persuade Mr Chiam to look at the water consumption with a long-term perspective. Sir, I am sure that you will be around by the year 2011 but some of us may not be around in this world. But we owe it to our children, our grandchildren and Singaporeans of future generations to ensure that they have adequate water supply then. This can only be done by taking action now. No responsible government should allow its people to go thirsty. 

    Let us look at the debate on this issue over the last two years. In 1993, there were 10 speakers, 1994, 21 speakers. This year, 13 speeches are on the book. In 1993, not one Opposition Member made any statement on this issue, not Mr Ling, not Mr Cheo, not hoiyung: Order. Mr Sung, you have exceeded your time. 

  hoiyung: What is your question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Sir, obviously, the Member for Potong Pasir did not pay attention to my answer. First, whether the PAP Community Foundation is allowed to sub-let its premises for other non-profit purposes. I have already explained that the Tenancy Agreement allows the PCF to use the premises for non-profit purposes for a maximum of 20% of the total operational hours. The PCF operates the premises at a concessionary rent and when the PCF sub-lets its premises to non-profit organisations, the rent that it charges to such non-profit organisations is not allowed to exceed the concessionary monthly rent payable to HDB. So the PCF is a non-profit organisation and does not make profit out of sub-letting. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, you have asked your question. 

    Both points, Sir, may not actually be under the purview of the Bill itself, but I think they are very much related. On the first, I must say that it is very seldom that I agree with the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to thank the three speakers for their expression of support for the Bill. With regard to Mr Chiam's comments, I take his point that it will be beneficial for all the Government departments which have dealings in land to have a computerised 

    As to complaints of Mr Chiam on what the PA and community centres do or did not do, for his constituency they are nothing new really, and the Hansard is full of instances of what he said were the "misdeeds" of PA and of the community centres against his Party. But as the Deputy Chairman of the People's Association mentioned just now, one of the reasons for the extension of the tenure of the elected members from one to three years is simply to be in line with the tenure of the appointed members which is also three years. I see nothing wrong in that. Besides, I think it is much more efficient for a member to be there for three years and be thinking about what to do in PA, for the people, mind you, not for PA, not for the Board members. 

    Mr Chiam obviously does not support the Bill and in the process of his speech, he said that the PAP won a solid victory in Marine Parade GRC because the candidates spoke in dialect. I wonder, in his post-mortem analysis, if it is his view 

  hoiyung: Mr Wong, do you want to give way to Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: I do not know why Mr Chiam is so agitated. I have not finished yet. 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Mr Chiam, I suggest that you allow the Minister to finish his reply before interrupting. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir raised the point earlier on that PAP MPs do not support Government policies just because during the recent by-election they spoke dialects. That is why I am going to answer the question, unless he does not want to listen to my answer. Sir, speaking dialects at election rallies is not new. It has been 

  hoiyung: Yes, Mr Chiam. You asked questions but you objected to the answer given, and you want to ask questions. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I only quoted the example of the National Community Leadership Training Institute as an example. If Mr Chiam were to read the present Act carefully, which says that the PA can "generally do all such other acts as may be necessary to achieve the objects of the Association," then, of course, running the National Community Leadership Training Institute, even without the amendment, or running OBS without the amendment, will still not be ultra vires the People's Association Act. If Mr Chiam thinks so, then maybe he can challenge us in the court. 

  Dr John Chen Seow Phun (Hong Kah GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Hougang, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I start, can I just ask hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I support, in principle, providing a safety net for Singaporeans or those who cannot pay. But I would like the Minister to clarify the doubts that I have before I decide whether to support the Bill. 

  Mr Speaker: Do you allow Mr Low to clarify? 

    Finally, Mr Low asked what would happen to the outstanding medical bill left behind by these patients who have passed away. If the family of the deceased has the means, I think they should pay up all the outstanding medical bills. However, for those families which do not have the means, I hope the Ministry of Health will adopt a sympathetic attitude and waive all 

    Mr Loh Meng See asked which would be the approved hospitals. He asked whether community hospitals would be included. Mr Low now says that he is asking for clarification as to whether 

  Prof. Jayakumar: I am sorry I missed that point. Yes, that was a consequential provision. It is not a new provision. It is already in the Act. I agree with Mr Ling that it may seem very odd to have such a provision with today's computerisation. The only reason that I have retained that provision - and if it is retained, penalties have to be rationalised - is that although we have computerisation, renewal notices for driving licences are sent in advance one and a half months to sometimes two and a half months ahead of the date of expiry. The Traffic Police tells me that although we have computerised our records, in some cases there is a short time lag, where the court's conviction, before it is computerised, there can be a few days' window and some drivers would take advantage of this, knowing that they are disqualified, to apply at the Post Office for a driving 

    First of all, I would like to address some of the points raised by the Member for Nee Soon Central. 

    The Member for Nee Soon Central also urged the Government to allow in more foreign workers in order to bring cost down. Sir, the only thing that would be kept down, with the introduction of more foreign workers, is wages of the Singaporean workers. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, are you making a speech? 

    The White Paper is not what Mr Chiam has called "an election ploy". Indeed, it is a White Paper that will have a resounding impact on the quality of all our lives. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if Mr Chiam thinks 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, I suggest that you allow the Minister to finish. 

  The Chairman: Two minutes, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Sir, in reply to Mr Chiam, it is the intention of the Ministry 

  hoiyung: Sir, yesterday Mr Goh Chee Wee, the hon. Member for Boon Lay, asked what are the long term plans for the CPF Top-Up Scheme, and whether the CPF Board would print opt-out forms now that Mr Chiam has supported the CPF Top-Up Scheme. 

    Sir, I agree fully with the Prime Minister when he chastised the Singapore Democratic Party for arousing resentment among 

 poorer Singaporeans in the election campaigns. I am adding my voice to this because Mr Chiam and his two SDP colleagues have not said in this House whether they will not continue to do so. There is no need to attack the rich and the successful to do more for the poor. Why must we take away the independent schools and the golf courses? How have they depressed the living standards of the poor? What have they taken away from the working class and the poor? Why should we grudge those who have done well? By doing so, the SDP is attempting to level down. Those who have worked harder, done better for themselves, will be brought down. That will be the result of the SDP's politics of envy. That will be the result of their approach if they succeed. 

 I urge the SDP not to undermine this system and to stop practising the politics of envy to win votes. The SDP said it wants to help the poor. But is it only a pretence? Because by carrying on with its distortion, the SDP will divide our society and the poor whom it purports trying to help will be worse off. There will not be enough natural resources to subsidise the poor in housing, education and health. Certainly, Sir, there will be no CPF Top-Up Scheme. Since Mr Chiam is honourable enough to admit in this House that he supports the CPF Top-Up Scheme, then my reply to the hon. Member for Boon Lay is that there will be no need to print the opt-out forms. I hope that Members of the SDP who are in this House, unfortunately Mr Chiam is not here right now, will also be honourable enough to refrain from practising the politics of envy from now on. 

    hoiyung: I am sorry, Mr Ling, we have run out of time. Mr Goh. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (6), Mr Goh. Can I suggest that you and Mr Cheo ask your questions so that we have time for a reply? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, could you ask your question because we are running out of time? 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, may I take up the point raised by Mr Cheo first. Why should the Ministry of Labour want to control the marriage of work permit holders with Singaporeans in Singapore? The reason is quite simple. We have more than 200,000 foreign workers in Singapore and if we do not exercise some control over who can marry Singaporeans and settle down in Singapore, we could very well be overwhelmed by a large number of low skilled, poorly-educated foreign workers in Singapore permanently. And I think that would not be in the long-term interest of Singaporeans. 

  hoiyung: Amendment No. (3), Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member has asked for a progress report on the ERP. There is actually a Question for Oral Answer on the progress report which, I believe, is due tomorrow. But, nevertheless, I will give a very brief update on what has been happening with the ERP project. We have invited for tenders, as Mr Low may have read in the papers. The tenders have closed and we have submitted the proposals to the Tenders 

    Sir, I took the trouble to explain this in careful detail because I was surprised to read in yesterday's Forum page of The Straits Times a letter from the SDP advocating the reduction of such fees. If the Government accepts the proposal of the SDP, which means reducing the fees in the first category, as I explained earlier, COE premiums will simply go up. This will result in three undesirable effects: 

    Sir, here I am trying to make a case to reduce costs for owners of cars above 10 years old and owners of new cars. The SDP's suggestion, if accepted by the Minister, would mean higher costs for these owners, not lower costs. For owners of newer cars, the value of their cars will drop at a faster rate with each passing year since a higher COE is a depleting asset. I hope the Minister will ignore this proposal by SDP as the proposal will create more hardship for the car owners. 

    Mr Heng also asked for reactions on the SDP's proposal. I presume he is referring to a proposal which was included in a letter in the Straits Times today. First of all, it is not a new proposal. The proposal has been raised many times before by Members of this House, by members of the public and by members of the press. We have every time explained the reasons why we do not think it is a good idea. The reasons are as what Mr Heng had mentioned just now. In fact, if we were to follow the proposal we would be penalising the small car owner, not helping him. 

  The Chairman: Mr Zulkifli is not here. Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo, your time is up. 

  Mr Matthias Yao Chih: Sir, the circumstance is on a case-by-case basis, ie, upon the seriousness of the apron and on a goodwill basis. Sir, Mr Low says that it was the HDB, as a managing agent, which took over the premises. The managing agent is a managing agent. The Council is chaired by Mr Low. It is properly formed under the Town Councils Act. If the Council has failed to take over the premises properly, it is not the HDB's fault, it is theirs. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Low fails to get the key points of my Senior Parliamentary Secretary's answer. The first key point is that the aprons are common property and they are the responsibility of the town councils. Having formed a town council, the aprons constitute part of the common property and it is the responsibility of the town council to maintain and repair it. That is why you have the sinking funds and that is why you collect S&C 

    As to the taking over of town councils, Mr Low took over when he won his election. Let me assure him that his predecessor who took over from HDB when the town council was first formed had a proper handing/taking over. All the common property was checked and any item which his predecessor was not happy about was made good by the HDB, as with all town councils. When he took over from the previous town council when he won his election, that is his good luck. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, do you expect an answer? 

  Mr Chew Heng Ching: Sir, I want to just add to what Mr Low has said. Our Eunos Town Council spends money to repair sinking aprons. 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Low made a mistake. The CIPC funds were not given to PAP town councils. The PAP town councils did not receive the funds. As for the $40 million for GST, this is going to be distributed to town councils to offset the GST charges on S&C. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, I think you should withdraw your amendment. 

  hoiyung: Sir, listening to Mr Chiam, I find it hard to believe he is saying that, with the limited resources given to the Government, all HDB estates for upgrading should be treated in the same manner. Assuming his estate is the same age as mine, I think my constituents will be most upset if they find out that he is able to get his estate upgraded, and not mine. Surely he cannot believe that good Government is for everybody, especially those who have voted against the Government. I just cannot subscribe to his point of view, Sir. 

  Mr Chay Wai Chuen (Brickworks GRC): Sir, listening to Mr Chiam, I would imagine that his constituents would have to wait a little bit longer going by the age of flats to do upgrading. The PAP is a very fair 

    Mr Chiam asked why flats which are less than 17 years old are selected for Interim Upgrading Programme (IUP) 

    Mr Chiam suggested that we should pick the oldest and most run-down flats for upgrading. I think this is a sure formula for Singaporeans to run down their flats. I am not inclined. Age is a criterion, and we choose the oldest flats as far as possible. But we also want evidence from the residents that they will take care of their flats after they are upgraded. That is why the Prime Minister suggested recently that the cleanliness of the estate be also considered as a factor for selecting the flats. It is no point spending millions of dollars upgrading the precinct only for it to be run down again. If we adopt Mr Chiam's criterion of the most run-down flats for initial upgrading, this is giving the wrong signal to Singaporeans. 

    Mr Chiam asked why the people need to support the PAP in order to get the Main Upgrading Programme. I think he is distorting the criteria. What we are saying is that the people must support the programme in order that the Main Upgrading Programme comes to them. It is for very simple reasons. hoiyungasked whether in the upgrading programme, we could involve the upgrading of the hawker centre as well. My response is that I am prepared to do so. But we want a check and balance because if they are not owners of the hawker stalls and HDB is upgrading the stalls, it is not unusual for the stallholders to be asking for a lot of upgrading works. Whereas it is better for us, as in the sold flats, to sell the stalls to them so that when we upgrade, there is a cost sharing formula. The town council, through the assistance of the IUP and the hawker stall owners, will co-pay the upgrading that they want. Then I think we will get value for money and we will not have unreasonable requests. But if individual MPs or advisors are prepared to tell us that when they upgrade the stalls and the stall owners are prepared to pay the full price of the upgrading cost, as suggested by Mr Lew Syn Pau, HDB is prepared to consider. We have tried one case in Holland Estate under Mr Peter Sung. He was able to propose the resiting of the market and cooked food centre and he was also able to get the support of the stallholders that the costs involved in restructuring the hawker centre and the wet market would be paid for by the stallholders. In that case, HDB is prepared to put in the investment because the stallholders know that whatever they ask for and whatever is spent, they will have to pay for it. Then there is some discipline and some checks and balances. If HDB were to go in and upgrade the hawker centre without this sense of payment by the beneficiaries themselves, then I think there is a danger that there will be a lot of waste. 

    Mr Chiam asked whether funds can be given to repair sunken aprons. We have debated this before. Sunken aprons are meant to be repaired using the sinking funds. HDB builds the blocks based on the foundation that rests on compacted soil. In many situations, there is no need for piles. As the soil consolidates over time, we can expect parts of the apron to have differential settlement and there may be parts which sink. So it is part of the town council's programme during the R&R maintenance programme every five or seven years to just top up the sunken apron to make it level. HDB, however, will come in and help on a goodwill basis if the differential settlement affects the sewerage pipes and creates a health or hygiene problem. Then HDB will come in and repair the sunken apron. But if it is just the differential settlement and cracks arising out of it, then it is entirely within 

    Mr Chiam said that when he says "run down" he does not mean run down. Let me tell him that there are many blocks of flats which are much older than Toa Payoh and although they are old they are not run down. So if he says "old" I agree. But if he says "run down", they should not be run down, provided the town council does its work. 

 Mr Chay Wai Chuen has been very patient in pushing the case for Forfar House and I have asked HDB to see how we can do some interim upgrading of Forfar House. So when Potong Pasir is 40 years old, I will pay similar attention to Mr Chiam's persistent requests. 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo, you have exceeded the time. Mr Lim. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: Sir, can I suggest, if Mr Cheo wants to set himself up as the champion of all resettlement cases in Singapore's history from all over Singapore, that he get his understanding of the policies and the individual cases right in the first place? 

    The second category which Mr Cheo is championing are squatters. They are not owners. These are the squatters on state land who over the years have farmed the land. We could continue to let them squat on state land and farm, and Singapore will be a farming country. But we need the land to build housing estates, to build industrial estates, to build new sources of employment, and new sources of economic growth. So we have to resettle these squatters. They do not own the property. They are squatting on state land. Nevertheless, the Government gave them an ex-gratia payment, depending on the extent of their farming activities. In the past, we paid them for every fruit tree that they had grown because the argument was that if they had grown a durian tree, that would have given him so much income. So we paid them $200-$300 per durian tree. 

    As Mr Cheo knows, this led to tremendous abuse. They started planting durian trees, small durian trees, next to one another and claiming $200-$300 per durian tree. Some of these farmers were 

    For the three cases which Mr Cheo raised, can I ask my officials to take down these particulars and respond to him? 

  The Chairman: Mr Cheo, we have reached "guillotine" time on this amendment. Can you withdraw your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Mr Cheo, can you withdraw your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Mr Zulkifli is not speaking. Mr Cheo, please take your two topics together. 

    Mr Cheo asked whether HDB can introduce a car park season ticket that will cover all areas in Singapore. That would mean the price of a season ticket will be very large if we want to cover all car parks in Singapore. I do not know whether the HDB will find that feasible. Let me just say that the way we manage the car parks in HDB estates is to try and ensure that anybody who buys a season ticket has confidence that there is a lot for him when he comes back. This is done by a judicious matching of demand and supply. If you allow a season car park ticket to be used anywhere, then there will be over demand in those areas which are very popular and the residents who have bought the tickets will not be able to park in those car parks. 

    For season car park tickets, again, I am not quite sure what Mr Cheo has asked. My explanation is that the season car park ticket is meant for the resident to park his car in the car park near his flat. For parking in town centres and neighbourhood centres, we want faster turnover and therefore we normally implement hourly parking so that people will go and patronise the shops. So it is not feasible to use a season ticket throughout the new town or throughout Singapore. 

    Mr Chiam has raised the subject of pasar malams again. We had a fairly long exchange on this about three weeks ago. I did not notice any new points that Mr Chiam has brought up. So, unfortunately, I 

 am going to have to give him the same reply. The allocation of dates and the number of times in the various constituencies is completely fair. All the constituencies are treated in exactly the same way. Mr Chiam has got some of his calculations wrong. It is not that the CC, CCC, CCMC and the town council have 16 days each. All of them have 16 days. They have one opportunity and from my perspective, that sounds reasonable. The residents in a particular constituency will have the benefit of having one 16-day fair. Residents in each of the Residents' Committees' areas will have the benefit of having a three-day fair, so that the stallholders are not unduly inconvenienced. 

    I am also glad to know that Mr Chiam, when he does organise such fairs, takes care to make sure that all the rules and regulations are followed. That is certainly very commendable. And if he continues to do so, I see no difficulty because that is about what we are asking for under the rules anyway. 

 constituency have the same opportunities. Each constituency has 16 days in which they can have a major fair. So the residents in every constituency enjoy the same opportunity to have a 16-day fair. So I really do not understand Mr Chiam's point. 

  hoiyung: As I have explained, the processing of the applications is done in the same way for all the constituencies. The way I look at it is that the interests of the residents have to be looked after. The interests of the shopkeepers and stallholders in the constituency have to be looked after. That seems to me to be more important than the perspective which Mr Chiam is taking, which is, the interest of his Town Council must be looked after. It seems a rather strange perspective to take. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think Mr Chiam is happy with the answer. I beg leave to withdraw my amendment. 

    Nevertheless, as the Member for Hougang has enquired about the report, I will briefly respond to his question. 

    I am therefore surprised to note that the SDP is conspicuously absent from this debate, although notice of the debate has been given much earlier. The SDP has been calling for a debate with the PAP on the various Government policies. It has even published its own land transport report last year, pontificating what it thought our land transport policy should be and said it would make its report part of its election manifesto. But when such an important debate is taking place in Parliament with extensive media coverage of its proceedings, the Chairman of SDP, 

 Mr Ling, absented himself and went to meet some liberal organisations at Subic Bay in the Philippines. hoiyung: Sir, can I clarify? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I did not say that he is not an SDP member. I said that he is not a CEC member. It seems to me that he did not represent the SDP when he spoke. 

    Sir, the SDP should therefore stop this hypocritical and deceiving act. If it let this debate pass, it should not come back and call for another debate. But knowing the SDP, I am sure it will do just that. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like the Member, hoiyung: I have asked my Personal Assistant to also check her records of all incoming telephone calls. There was no record of a call from Mr Cheo to say that he wished to participate in this debate. 

    The third point is that Dr Chen said just now that the SDP did not take the problem of our transport system seriously. That is not a correct statement. Otherwise, I would not be sitting here all the time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo, do you want to reply? 

 positive proposals by the Government, what do we have from the Opposition? We have complaints. We have all sorts of negative reactions. And we have just heard Mr Cheo. He has not said whether he supports this particular report or he objects to it. What is his stand? He has not clearly stated his stand. He merely said that he would photocopy one set of the Land Transport Report of the SDP and send it to Dr Chen. But that would be after the debate is over. What is the use of a report after the debate is over? 

    Last year, when the SDP put up its report and made a hue and cry of it, and reported in the Straits Times and Business Times of 27th January 1995, it said that it had all the solutions and wanted a debate. Here in Parliament is where we should be debating national issues. And where is Mr Ling? He is far away in the Philippines. Is a foreign conference more important than a matter that touches the hearts and minds of every Singaporean, ie, land transport, something which we talk about even in the coffeeshops? If they do not go to the coffeeshops, then they would not know that it is the talk of the town. We must put our national interest first by coming here, and not all the way to the Philippines and running away from a debate. 

    Mr Cheo said that Mr Ling is away. But does he know that some PAP MPs were also away. Mr Heng Chiang Meng and Mr Goh Choon Kang were away for another important meeting, a da hui (    ) also. We can say that this hui is bigger, geng jia da de da hui (    ). But they made it a point to come back in time. They flew back in time to participate in this important debate because they know that this matter touches the hearts and minds of all Singaporeans. So we want to ask the SDP, "What is your stand? What are your alternatives?" There is no point that, after this event, the SDP will again write to the newspapers and say, "Let's have another debate." It is always running away from a debate. And yet on another occasion, they will ask for a debate. This is the time when we come to the truth. Does the SDP have any good solution to the problems of land transport? I would say none. 

    The SDP suggested that, in its earlier report last year, it had carried out a study and recommended that there be separate classes of COE bidding to cater for people living and working in different parts of the island. This is indeed woefully inadequate. How can you have a COE system depending on where you stay? If you stay in Bukit Gombak, does it mean that you have a cheaper COE? 

  Dr Ong Chit Chung: Or no COE. Or if you stay in Orchard Road, you pay higher COE? Or if you stay in Marine Parade, will you pay higher COE? Does it mean that if you stay in the Prime Minister's constituency, you pay the cheapest COE? This system will not work. And Mr Cheo, for all that he is trying to enlighten us, only said that the speed for pick-up should be increased from 50 kph to 70 kph. Is this the solution to our transport problem? Then it will be very simple. He said that by keeping the speed at 50 kph, it is causing a lot of traffic jams and it may even lead to accidents. May I ask: are there any concrete examples of accidents being caused by pick-ups travelling at 50 kph? If not, he should not mislead this House. And traffic jams are not caused by keeping the speed at 50 kph. There are other factors. 

  hoiyung: Dr Ong, do you want to give way to Mr Cheo? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, even if a vehicle remains stationary, it can also cause an accident. The point I am trying to make is that we expect the SDP to give us an alternative or solution if it disagrees with this Report. That is all I ask. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, he has not stated whether he supports this particular White Paper. And honestly, this is the time to debate the issue. He is trying to run away by saying that it is not about the SDP's alternative proposal. Is he trying to say that he is ashamed of the SDP's alternative proposal? Or is he trying to hide the proposal because there is nothing to show? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: You have another clarification, Mr Cheo? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I may ask Mr Cheo whether he will vote `Aye' or `Nay' on this motion. Will he support this White Paper since he said that the SDP agrees to some of the proposals? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think the Report is very comprehensive. It is very detailed and clear. But if the SDP member is not clear, then I think he is hiding away from the issue and is avoiding the issue altogether. He is not giving us the truth or stating clearly the stand of the SDP. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Cheo, you want to clarify again? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if he had read it, then he should know where his stand should be. And in the absence of the other SDP Member, he should represent the SDP. I am sure he is not going to say that he has a superior paper in SDP. We will call for a division and he should state his stand clearly. 

    But before I proceed any further, I, too, would like to express my surprise at the SDP's very conspicuous silence. The SDP did make a very big song and dance, some time ago, when it presented the SDP's Land Transport Report 1995. I read it and I decided that it was not worth replying at that time. However, I thought that this would be a wonderful opportunity for the SDP to come out with not only its own proposals but, having seen the plans put up by the Land Transport Authority, to have a full-scale debate with us as to what 

 is the best solution for Singapore in the future. This is a wonderful opportunity for us to hear from the SDP what are the details that are hidden behind its report. 

    Mr Cheo has criticised or commented that the Land Transport Authority's White Paper is not detailed enough and, therefore, he is not able to comment. If that is the case, then I would like Members of this House to read the SDP's Land Transport Report and to decide for themselves whether their own report contains more details as to convince all Singaporeans that they have a superior system. Instead of which, one Member is conspicuous by his absence and another Member was, until just towards the end of the debate, conspicuous by his silence. The third Member of the SDP, I am presuming, is not speaking on behalf of the SDP. May I ask the Member whether I am correct in assuming so? 

  hoiyung: I think it is pure common sense that priority must be given to a debate of this magnitude which involves a very important subject in Singapore. The Minister has asked me whether I was speaking for myself or for the SDP. I wish to say that these are my own views. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: I would like to thank Mr Chiam for his clarification. If he had said that he was going to speak on behalf of the SDP, then I would have asked him a 

  hoiyung: The fact that there is no mention of the North-East line and the fact that Mr Chiam obviously has got a very important interest in this and has raised it, I guess, supports what he said earlier that he does not know anything about what is going on in the SDP. 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo has a very convenient excuse. The SDP is not the government and therefore it is not expected to produce a reasonable report. This is an excuse. But have we not heard that the SDP aspires to be the alternative government of Singapore? And this is the reason why it has stated, when it produced its land transport report, that this is the alternative vision for Singaporeans. If I may read the first sentence of the preface of this report: 

    `In our effort to provide Singaporeans with an alternative government, the SDP feels that it is important to be constructive in its criticisms ...' So how can Mr Cheo now claim that because the SDP is not the government that it is not in a position to, first of all, put up a decent report and, secondly, to comment on what has been put up by the Land Transport Authority? 

  hoiyung: I think I can summarise what Mr Cheo has said, ie, that the subject matter is too complex for the SDP to comprehend. Therefore, rather than debating this issue in Parliament, it is much better to go to Subic Bay in the Philippines and celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Liberal Party of the Philippines. I think it is a much safer place for the Chairman of the SDP to be in, rather than coming here and exposing what they obviously do not have, an alternative plan for Singapore. But I think it is important for the Chairman of the party, the elected representative of his constituency, to explain to his constituents why they did not take this opportunity to explain what are the alternative plans for Singapore. I think SDP owes the people who voted for them to represent them in Parliament an explanation. 

    Earlier, I asked Mr Chiam whether he spoke on behalf of the SDP and he said that he did not. If that is the case, then I will have to ask him in his personal capacity what he meant when he said that the White Paper is an election ploy, an election gimmick? What is an election gimmick? Based on my understanding of the word "gimmick", it is a trick. It is a publicity stunt. In other words, when the PAP Government and the Land Transport Authority put up our plan we have no intention whatsoever of carrying it out, but it is a means of hoodwinking the 

 people. Can Mr Chiam let this House know which part of the report he considers to be an election ploy? Which chapter, which paragraph, which page is an election ploy, which this Government has no intention whatsoever of carrying out, but is just publicising and publishing this report as a gimmick for the election? Can I ask Mr Chiam this question? 

  hoiyung: What exactly does Mr Chiam mean by that, Sir? 

  hoiyung: Order. I think we are straying. Mr Chiam, will you please resume your seat? Mr Mah, please ask your question again. 

  hoiyung: I only recognise Mr Mah and Mr Chiam. The others should resume their seats. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, will you resume your seat first. Mr Mah, please ask your question. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like a categorical answer from Mr Chiam as to which part of this White Paper on "A World Class Land Transport System" he considers to be an election ploy or a gimmick. He was quoted in the Straits Times as saying so. He repeated his statement in Parliament in the debate yesterday. I am now asking him which part of the White Paper he considers to be an election ploy, because, as far as my understanding of the word is concerned, it carries a very negative connotation, in the sense that we are not serious about what we are going to do and we are trying to hoodwink the people. As soon as the election is over, we are going to change all our plans, as Mr Chiam has alluded to just now. So I am going to ask Mr Chiam, Sir, which part of this White Paper he thinks we are going to change after the elections. I am also going to ask him further if he can show this House the relevant plan, strategy or measure that he considers to be a "gimmick". Then I will ask the LTA to expunge that particular measure from the White Paper and not implement it. 

  hoiyung: Sir, can I take it that Mr Chiam actually agrees with the White Paper on land transport? The only thing that he does not agree with is that it is the title which is too eye-catching. Can I confirm that? So if we rename it "Land Transport System for Singapore", he will vote for and support the motion. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Sir, I take it from our exchanges just now that Mr Chiam is going to vote in favour of the motion. If he does not, then I would think that what he has told the House just now is an election ploy. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I would also like to make the point that when Mr Chiam said those words I felt upset not only for the Government but also for the fact that a lot of people, professionals in the Land Transport Authority, have done a lot of work over the last few months. The White Paper was drafted in response to the challenge that I posed to the LTA when I launched the Land Transport Authority last September. To me, his remarks demeaned the efforts that they put in and devalued the professionalism of this 

 statutory board. This is the reason why I felt that it is very important for me to get Mr Chiam to retract his statement that the White Paper is actually an election ploy or an election gimmick. I am glad to note that he has actually done so. 

  hoiyung: I would take Mr Chiam's remarks as withdrawing what he has said earlier and that he appreciates the work that has been put in by the professionals. I think the Land Transport Authority will be pleased to hear that. But I would say that it is one thing for Mr Chiam to play opposition politics and to criticise every Government initiative as a ploy. But it is quite another to say things which are clearly not valid and after a while people may not take him seriously except for hard core opposition supporters. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not think I can ever convince Mr Low if he is not willing to be convinced. All I can tell him is that, based on the experience that we have had in several other countries, and based on our own experience, an institution or an enterprise which does not have a responsibility or an incentive to do well will eventually just deteriorate. And I think the fact that even SBS as a private company with the need to pay profits has been able to keep fares below CPI over the last 15 years is, I submit, a credit to them. 

    Dr Wang also asked what exactly is the time-frame for such buildings and what exactly will be built in the next 10 years. And I believe Mr Chiam in another form also wanted to know what exactly will be the rate of progress. I want to say that what is important in the White Paper is a commitment that has been made to develop this outstanding transport system. The White Paper lists out a series of projects that the LTA will undertake, both in the short term as well as in the medium term. 

    Dr Ow Chin Hock wanted more assurance that the current bus industry structure is sound. He advocated the opposite of what Mr Low was advocating just now, and he wanted more competition in the industry. As I have explained in this House several times, the Government policy is to encourage competition and to let market forces prevail wherever possible. But the bus industry is one example where the Government has used market forces but created an environment where there is limited competition so that it suits our circumstances. There are many different other examples in other countries. There are different models. What the British has done is to go the way that Dr Ow was talking about. They have opened it up completely to free-for-all competition. And what has happened, based on the feedback that we have had, is not entirely satisfactory. 

Yu-Foo Yee Shoon              Cheo Chai Chen

Zulkifli bin Mohammed         Chiam See Tong

                              Low Thia Khiang

  The Minister of State for National Development (Mr Lim Hng Kiang) (for the Minister for National Development): Mr Speaker, Sir, for the benefit of Members, the land parcel that Mr Low is referring to is located at the eastern side of Sungei Serangoon. It has an area of about 11.7 hectares. The lot is within part of the Tampines refuse dumping ground which has been closed. 

    But like what Dr Beng has said, it is important for us also to consider whether justice will be done. I agree with Mr Ling on this point. Is justice done? It is important that the rights of the accused person be protected. Again, we have to know that a clear benefit of this amendment is that trials will be heard earlier. And I do not think we should deprive or think lightly of this improvement for, indeed, we all know the axiom that justice delayed is justice denied. Hypothetically, surely, Mr Ling, if he were the accused, would not want to be incarcerated in prison for several years, only at the end of the day to be found not guilty. I think that is also a serious problem. 

    Now, again, seeing things in context, this is not indeed his last chance. Mr Ling says that this is his last chance. He dramatically puts up an argument on that point. We know that it is not his last chance because he can go on appeal to a Court of Appeal of three minds, three judges. And should there be a dissenting judgment at that stage, an appeal can be lodged also to the Privy Council. And mind you, even before the trial is heard, before it is set down for hearing, there is what we call a preliminary inquiry for the lower court to ascertain whether or not the trial should proceed. So this is also another safeguard. I think that is an important point. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am a layman in matters of law. According to Mr Ling on the procedures of the trial court and the Appeal Court, he said that facts are discussed in the trial court and when the case goes to appeal, only points of law, and not facts, are admitted. While this may be true in a general sense, I find it very difficult to believe that three appeal judges in the Court of Appeal will completely ignore a point of fact not put up at the trial stage, if the fact can prove that the person is innocent and not guilty. This means that, because of technicalities of the law, the three judges will be prepared to sentence a man to death, even though the fact might come up later on to show that this man is not guilty. Perhaps the Minister for Law and Home Affairs would like to enlighten us on this matter. 

    Mr Ling has asked for the figures. I have here the figures given by the Chief Justice in his speech. We have, at the moment, 17 cases which have been fixed for hearing. 

  hoiyung: Will you give way to Mr Ling, Mr Chen? 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, you can only speak once to a question and you can only rise again if it is to clarify some parts of your speech which have been misunderstood. Can I ask you whether it is to clarify? 

  Mr Ling How Dong: To clarify what Mr Ho has said, Sir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, you are not to introduce any new material into this clarification. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, could you resume your seat? If it is a point which Mr Ho has made a mistake, the Minister will be the one to clarify. Please resume your seat. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think Mr Ling is right in giving the impression to something which has been lightly thought of or introduced in a 

    Secondly, Mr Ling has completely missed the point when he says, "produce statistics, how many cases in the past 10 years or so where there has been a long delay. After the long delay the person has been acquitted." The whole idea of this exercise, if he read the Chief Justice's remarks carefully and if he had listened to my speech, is "to avoid this ugly and unacceptable risk", the words which the Chief Justice used. It is not that there have been many cases where this kind of scandal has happened. Because if it has happened, then both the judiciary and the Ministry's law enforcement agencies should be made accountable. But the Chief Justice has proposed this because he has warned us that if we do not do this, this is a scenario we are headed for. That is the point which I want to emphasise. 

    If I may go on to some of the other points raised. Mr Ling again posed the question: can there be a miscarriage of 

    Mr Heng Chiang Meng raised a point arising from what Mr Ling said. Mr Ling says the appeal courts will not look at the facts. They will only look at the law. And I think Mr Heng Chiang Meng was right in asking: could it be possible that an appeal court of three judges will never ever look 

 at the factual situation, even where there is good reason to do so? I think here, Mr Heng Chiang Meng, a layman, is right whereas Mr Ling, although legally trained, is wrong. It is true that appeal courts usually do not like to disturb findings of fact by the lower court. And there are good reasons for this. The good reasons are that the trial judge is a judge who would have seen first-hand the witnesses, the testimony they gave, the demeanour in which they gave the testimony, how they performed under cross-examination. He would have observed all this. Appeal court judges are not as best placed as a trial judge. For that reason, appellate courts tend not to disturb the findings of fact. But, and this is to answer Mr Heng Chiang Meng's question, it does not mean that appeal courts will never ever look into the facts and will never ever disturb findings of fact. Even the Chief Justice himself, sitting as an appellate judge, has reversed trial judge's findings of fact. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, you have already made your speech. 

    Thirdly, Sir, a multi-stage GST is supposed to be an efficient and a good tax for the taxman. It is not the same as a turnover tax as mentioned by the hon. Member for Potong Pasir. Economists think it is a good tax because it is neutral - it does not distort allocation of resources. For example, in the global ideal situation, the tax should be neutral to foreign trade (so that neither importers nor exporters are favoured); it should be neutral to owners of capital and labour (so that none is favoured in the choice of techniques); it should be neutral to firms which are either horizontally or vertically integrated in the corporate sector or outside it. The value added tax, in the ideal situation, introduces no distortion to the resource allocation, leaving the optimal allocation to the free play of market forces. Hence, it is so important to introduce the least number of zero-ratings and exemptions. We are favouring exports 

  hoiyung: Because of the SDP! 

 illustrates this point. An argument was made by the SDP that the less well-off should be taken care of by the state without they even having to ask or compete for it. Sir, it is this kind of soft-headed handout policy that has landed so many of the Western countries in such a mess. There, for years welfare workers have been going around forcing aid on people who were too proud to ask for aid and welfare workers persuaded them that they were entitled to the aid, they should ask for the aid, until we have a situation today where it is considered as an entitlement, a right, an obligation by the Government towards them. I hope that we will never become seduced by these arguments. We should be glad that we still have a people who have a strong sense of responsibility for self, and pride in taking care of their own interest. 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Mr Low, when you rise on a point of clarification, it is to seek clarification on something which the Minister has said in his speech which you may not understand. But when you rise on a point of clarification, you may not seek to introduce new material into the debate. Yes, Mr Chay. 

  Mr Chay Wai Chuen: Sir, I would like to rise on a point of clarification. Just now, it was mentioned by the Opposition Member for Potong Pasir that we do not need business investments because the banks are flooded with cash. Maybe he does not understand that in the context of this debate, a reduction in the corporate tax will lead to greater investments which 

  Mr Speaker: What do you wish to clarify? Mr Chiam is not here. 

  Mr Chay Wai Chuen: No, it is regarding the point made by the Opposition Member for Hougang, Mr Low. 

  Mr Speaker: What is it in Mr Low's speech that you want to clarify? 

  The Minister of State for Finance (Cdre (Res) Teo Chee Hean): Mr Speaker, Sir, a point of clarification on what Mr Low and Mr Chay have said. Mr Low is wrong. Mr Chay is only partially correct. What Mr Low has done is to compound the 3% GST each year, which is obviously not the correct way of calculating. There are some tables being prepared which the Minister for Finance will be glad to distribute to Members later and, I am sure, they will clarify the whole situation. 

  An hon. Member: Mr Ling. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Mr Ling is being rather simplistic in his approach to managing the pool of foreign workers in Singapore. He assumes that Government can just regulate and say employers must show that they have not been able to get Singaporean workers. The point here is that if you allow foreign workers in Singapore - bear in mind that these foreign workers are prepared to work for a very low wage - then what is there to stop employers from advertising for jobs at, say, $200 a month. And no Singaporean will apply for such jobs, because no one will work for $200 a month. After a period of time, they show the Government, "Look, I have put so many advertisements for workers, $200 a month, nobody turned up. I have got no applicants." How is the Government going to be in a position to judge whether the 

  hoiyung: Sir, Mr Ling asks what has GST got to do with jobs. All of us who have thought through this matter of GST and who have discussed it, would know that GST has 

 both a big picture and a small picture. As we hear debates in this House, I think this point comes across very clearly. Some Singaporeans see the big picture better. Other Singaporeans, like housewives, may see the smaller picture better. But I think all of us here are expected to know both the big and the small picture. But I think Mr Ling's questions show that this is a wrong assumption, and some people know neither the big picture nor the small picture. Mr Cheo has mentioned a few negative points for GST. All of us here, PAP MPs, even NMPs, I think, are objective. We bring up both good points and bad points about GST. But Mr Cheo only mentioned the bad points. Perhaps on another occasion he may also want to list out the good points about GST. 

  hoiyung: Sir, there may be light all around but some people, nevertheless, still see no picture. When we talk about the big picture, we do not need details. When we talk about the small picture, we need details. The big picture, Sir, is very clear. GST is linked to the reformation of our tax structure. It helps us to bring down our corporate tax. It brings in more people to invest in Singapore. It creates jobs - one, two, three, four. I hope Mr Ling is quite clear in his mind now, how the link is made. 

    Mr Chiam, who is not here unfortunately, has, predictably, I thought, used the Australian example to say why we should not introduce GST. I was waiting for this. But the Australian experience is useful in illustrating how not to introduce a broad-based consumption tax such as GST. Mr Hewson's tax programme was a brave attempt to radically reform the Australian tax system. He wanted to replace a complicated system of 15 indirect taxes, including payroll and wholesale taxes, with a single GST at 15%. Personal income taxes would also be cut but corporate taxes would be increased from 39% to 42%. Unfortunately, the package in its timing was clearly 

    Mr Chiam and Mr Low have also said, both today and in speeches in the past, that GST will not make Singapore more competitive. In fact, in an anti-GST rally, the SDP has said that the Government's proposal to cut personal and corporate income taxes will not make Singapore competitive. They have said that cutting taxes would only give people more money to spend or save as they saw fit. I believe that this is an extremely naive approach and is unbelievably naive for the leadership of a political party. 

    Mr Chiam and the SDP have also in the past said that the use of GST to broaden the tax base in the face of an aging population is wrong. He blames the aging entirely on the PAP's two-child family. I think this is a downright insidious, if stupid, argument. Let me explain. In the early 1960s Singapore was confronted with a classical problem of a small poor country trying to break out of the poverty trap. The population growth rate was over 4% per year. It was essential that the rate 

 be brought down to a level which will allow the accumulation of capital for re-investment to sustain growth. Without this, any increase in GDP will be consumed by a rising tide of new mouths. The SDP should open its eyes and look around at the many third world countries still struggling with this population growth problem. Look at what China and India are both doing over population control and ask yourselves why are they doing it. 

 what Singapore would be like if we had a SDP Government 30 years ago. There would have been no population control policy, as they have advocated, so as to avoid an aging population. Every family will be encouraged to have as many children as possible so that Singapore could have an army of young workers. There will be no need for foreign workers, and no foreign workers' levy. Paradise would have arrived by the turn of the century. Singapore's population today probably easily exceeds four million and would still be growing at the rate of 4-5% per annum. By the year 2000, we would still have a very young population of 20 beggars supporting each 60 year-old beggar. 

    Mr Ling, who is not here, has suggested in passing that in the case of foreign worker's levy, we should, in place of the levy, introduce Government regulations. But this seems to be contradictory to the SDP's position that what we do not need more in Singapore are Government regulations. I suggest that Mr Ling should sort it out with his Secretary-General. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, I am making a point of order. You are not seeking clarification but making a speech. 

  The Chairman: Mr Cheo is not here. Dr Vasoo. 

  The Chairman: Dr Tan Cheng Bock is not here. Mr Chiam. 

    Mr Chiam referred to child care centres also. He said that they are important and useful. But finally, at the end of it all, he asked about his constituency. In his constituency, there are actually five 

    He also mentioned about the child care centre which was supposed to be built but instead a home run by the Singapore Association for Mental Health (SAMH) came into being in the same block. If the Member can recall, my Ministry had agreed to the setting up of a child care centre and he did not agree to the setting up of the centre at Block 139 Potong Pasir in 1991. However, this was not taken up further. In 1993, the matter was again raised by the Potong Pasir Town Council and subsequently sites were identified in 1993/1994 for the child care centre. But, unfortunately, these sites were also not found suitable by Mr Chiam, and the matter was again dropped after that, and nothing was heard about it. 

 their children are older. In other words, they reserve the place. They are not on the waiting list. They may or may not take up the place later. And the centre still has 10 vacancies. There are four other existing centres at Potong Pasir and, according to our records, there are 70 vacancies. I would like to advise parents to consider registering their children with those centres which have vacancies. These are the details that I have. Of course, Mr Chiam may have other details of his own. We can establish what is correct and what is wrong later. 

  hoiyung: Sir, as I have already mentioned just now in my answer, we apply CWOs to persons convicted or charged with a second or more littering offence and also on those persons who have committed serious littering offences. I think that Singaporeans know littering is an offence and there is no excuse for not knowing that littering is an offence. I had learned that in school since I was in my short pants 30 years ago. So I do not think any Singaporean can claim that he does not know that littering is an offence. That being the case, I think there is absolutely no excuse for anyone to litter in Singapore. For those who choose to be socially irresponsible and litter indiscriminately, then they should face the penalty. I do not really understand why Mr Low seems to be taking the side of those who are socially irresponsible. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, no speeches. Ask your question. 

    Again, Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not sure why Mr Low seems to be taking the side of those who are socially irresponsible as compared to the overwhelming majority of Singaporeans. Only 921 persons were issued with CWOs since November 1992. There are three million other Singaporeans who are quite socially conscious and civic-minded persons who would want to see a clean and green environment. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think I have already explained quite clearly when people are subject to CWOs. Serious offences are subject to CWOs. Throwing a can is considered a serious offence. Those who have repeat offences, even though they are minor offences, are also subject to CWOs. Again, Mr Speaker, Sir, I really do not understand why Mr Low seems to be taking the side of those who are not civic-minded. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, can you make your point? 

 offence. We teach them in our schools, we teach them in our kindergartens, and to try to make excuses for people who litter from punishment, which I think is well deserved, is really a very strange position for Mr Low to take. 

  hoiyung: I hardly think that is Mr Low's purpose, Mr Speaker. I think Mr Low is just simply making excuses for people who ought to be appropriately punished when they commit littering offences. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think through the efforts of Mr Low and others, the press, and so forth, CWO is 

 very well publicised in Singapore. Fines for littering are very well publicised in Singapore. They are even the butt of jokes in other countries about Singapore. So to claim that any Singaporean does not know that he faces penalties if he litters is really quite amazing to me. And all these sound to me like excuses that Mr Low is making for a particular case which he may have of someone who has been socially irresponsible, has littered, and caused a nuisance to the majority of Singaporeans. More than 99% of Singaporeans have not encountered any such difficulties. They are civic-conscious; they want to see their city clean; they want to see their country clean and green. And I do not see why Mr Low keeps on defending them. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, you seem to be labouring on the same points. Do you have something new to add? If not, we move on to the next question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, it is the same question that you are asking again. 

    (1) notes with regret that the Secretary-General of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP), Dr Chee Soon Juan, with two other SDP members, attended the "alternative panel" discussion organised by Dr George Crane in Williams College on 15 September 1995, and there endorsed Mr Francis Seow's attacks on the judiciary, and 

    (2) deplores the SDP's support for a baseless attack by a fugitive from justice on the independence and integrity of our judiciary and legal system, that ensure the rule of law in Singapore. 

    Dr Chee did not go to Williams College in his personal capacity. Two other SDP members accompanied him, and attended the panel discussion together with him. They are Mr Wong Hong Toy, the Vice-Chairman of the SDP, and Mr Mike Chan, an SDP member. Both Mr Wong Hong Toy and Mr Mike Chan are employees of Bukit Gombak Town Council, whose Chairman is hoiyung: 

    After I gave notice that I would be moving this motion in Parliament, the SDP issued a statement signed by Dr Chee Soon Juan. It challenged the PAP to produce evidence to back our accusations that the SDP had supported Seow's claims, and offered to issue a public apology if such statements could be found. I have produced the transcript of its Secretary General's statements at the alternative panel just now. 

    Dr Chee has demanded that the media publish in full his speech at Williams College, claiming that this will vindicate him. The SDP has since published its own version of events in a Special Williams College edition of its party organ, The New Democrat. Sir, with your permission, may I ask the Clerk of Parliament to circulate to Members copies of this issue New Democrat Issue No. 3, 1995. [Copies of The New Democrat distributed to hon. Members]. Members will note that The New Democrat completely blacked out the fact that the SDP delegation attended the alternative panel with Francis Seow and Lingle. It does not carry Francis Seow's and Lingle's speeches, nor a single word of Dr Chee's remarks at the alternative panel! Why this glaring omission? It is because the SDP and Dr Chee know that what Dr Chee said at the alternative panel at Williams College was wrong, and are trying to cover it up. 

    Sir, earlier I have circulated the transcript of Dr Chee's remarks at the alternative panel and the Special Williams College edition of The New Democrat, so that Members can see for themselves the dishonesty of the SDP. This is yet another example of Dr Chee altering the record after the event, in order to deceive the public about the wrongs he has committed. He did it with Dr Vasoo over the minutes of the meeting with the Dean of NUS, Prof. Ernest Chew, when he called them "fabricated". He is a compulsive liar. 

    Since the SDP delegation returned from Williams College, the SDP has had at least two more opportunities to clarify and correct its stand. On 21st September, I wrote to the newspapers again asking Dr Chee why he had agreed with Francis Seow at the alternative panel, instead of rebutting him, if, as Dr Chee claimed, the purpose of his visit to Williams College was to "clear up any misperception that Americans might have about Singapore, and to set the record straight." Dr Chee could have used his reply to my letter to repudiate Francis Seow's criticisms of the judiciary and explain that he held the judiciary in high regard, even though he had failed to do so earlier. But again he chose not to. 

 Secretary to the Prime Minister, wrote to the press listing out Francis Seow's criticisms again, and pressing the SDP to have the honesty either to rebut them or to endorse them. The SDP has done neither. So it is necessary for me to move this motion in this House to specifically press the SDP for its position on this important issue. 

    While Dr Chee and his delegation represented the SDP in Williams College, what he said there obviously did not represent the view of every SDP MP. On 9th October, hoiyung: Sir, laws are vital for the maintenance of order in society. Laws are made to prescribe the rights and obligations of government and those who are governed. Our laws also define the norms of acceptable social conduct. 

    Arising from these facts, the issues in this motion are whether Dr Chee and the SDP have endorsed and/or supported an attack on the independence and integrity of our judiciary and, if so, whether there is any basis for the attack? 

    I will deal with the first issue. Did Dr Chee and the SDP endorse and support the attack on our judiciary? It has been suggested by Dr Chee and the SDP that they have not endorsed or supported Mr Seow's view because neither has made a statement impugning the integrity of the judiciary. That, with respect, misses the point. While it is true that ordinarily a statement is made by an express assertion of fact, it is equally true that one can make a statement by one's conduct. It is also the case that while usually very little can be construed from mere silence, in some circumstances, silence speaks volumes about one's true intentions and beliefs. The question here really is, do the circumstances of this episode entitle us to infer that the SDP has, by its inaction and other conduct, made a positive assertion of fact in respect of our judiciary? 

    By a letter of 8th September 1995, Dr Chee informed the Prime Minister that he intended to present the SDP's alternative ideas for Singapore at the counter panel discussion at Williams College, and sought a meeting with the Prime Minister. In his reply, the Prime Minister's Press Secretary assailed Dr Chee's motives for agreeing to be a party to that discussion. In particular, the Press Secretary said, and I quote, "Your desire to see the Prime Minister in Williams College does not prove your 

 commitment to Singapore." In a press statement issued on 10th September 1995 on SDP's notepaper, Dr Chee signing off as Secretary-General, stated that the SDP's participation "is to clear any misperceptions that anyone may have about Singapore". That is one of the most important statements that has been made by Dr Chee and the SDP in this episode. I repeat it: "to clear any misperceptions that anyone may have about Singapore". That statement, which was carried in the Straits Times on the following day, was made specifically in response to a challenge to SDP's commitment to Singapore. Dr Chee and the SDP attempted to dispel the notion that they are anti-Singaporean by promising to clear any misperceptions about Singapore. In other words, to defend Singapore against unjustified attack. 

    In the circumstances, Dr Chee and the SDP expressly represented to Singaporeans that if, in SDP's view, any unjustified allegations against Singapore are made at the counter panel discussion, he and the SDP would clear the air. Dr Chee and the SDP therefore voluntarily undertook, and assumed a duty, to all Singaporeans to defend our system if it came in for what, in their view, was baseless criticism, and to take a stand. 

    At the discussion, Mr Seow disparaged the judiciary, the legal system, and the rule of law in Singapore. The SDP was represented by three persons, including its Secretary-General and Vice-Chairman. But Dr Chee and his two colleagues were conspicuously silent on this attack. There was no rebuttal either at the discussion or in Dr Chee's speech the following day. 

    In Dr Chee's and SDP's view, Mr Seow's claim that our judiciary is corrupt was either a misperception or it was not. If it was a misperception, Dr Chee and the SDP were under a duty, and had undertaken, to Singaporeans to speak up to clarify the matter. They remained silent when Mr Seow discredited our legal system. Their failure to refute the criticisms of our judiciary is consistent only with one conclusion: that the SDP and Dr Chee did not consider it to be a 

    It is important that we give SDP the benefit of the doubt. There are other possible interpretations of SDP's failure to rebut Mr Seow's claims. First, that the SDP was so caught up in the discussion at Williams College that it forgot to clear up the misperception. Secondly, that Dr Chee disagreed with Mr Seow but was too diffident to clear the air. Let me deal with each in turn. 

    First, was there an oversight? The SDP's conduct before, during and after the event militates against any such interpretation. Well before Williams College, in a letter published in the Straits Times on 12th August 1995, Dr Ow asked Dr Chee to state whether he disagreed with the views of Mr Safire who had labelled our judiciary "corrupt". Dr Chee avoided dealing with this in his reply. 

    After Williams College, Dr Chee and the SDP had many opportunities to clear up this possible misperception, this time, on the part of the PAP, about SDP's stand on the judiciary. After Dr Chee returned to Singapore, Dr Ow challenged him to state his stand about Mr Seow's attack on our judiciary. Dr Ow's letter was published in the Straits Times on 21st September 1995. Dr Ow reminded Dr Chee that during the counter panel discussion, Dr Chee had said that he and his party faced some of the constraints which Mr Seow talked about. Here was an excellent opportunity for Dr Chee to clear the air and to take a stand. Dr Chee, replying as Secretary-General of the SDP, chose not to address the issue. In fact, he and the SDP repeated that the SDP was at Williams College "to 

    What about the other possible interpretation of Dr Chee's conduct? Was he too reticent to rebut Mr Seow? Again, this is not at all a reasonable inference for the simple reason that Dr Chee has himself claimed that he "will speak forthrightly concerning matters about my country". He said this in the Straits Times of 27th September 1995. Here is the Secretary-General of a party saying that he will not mince words when it concerns an issue affecting Singapore. It is therefore impossible, on any view, to conclude that Dr Chee and the SDP were coy about setting the record straight. 

    What then is the only inference which can be drawn? The SDP by its own claim has said, not once, but twice, that one of its objectives in attending the counter panel discussion was to put right misperceptions about Singapore. And yet, in the face of Mr Seow's charge, and despite many opportunities to clarify, not only has the SDP maintained a silence about the integrity of our judiciary, Dr Chee has not once resiled from his assertion that "I agree very much with many things that Mr Seow and Dr Lingle have said." That remains his and the SDP's stand up till today. 

    The SDP had another opportunity to clear up the misperception, if it believed that Mr Seow's views on our system were without basis. On 10th October 1995, the Straits Times published a letter from the Prime Minister's Press Secretary. In that letter, Dr Chee was asked to clarify his position regarding the independence of our judiciary in the light of Mr Seow's allegations. Dr Chee's reply was published on 17th October 1995. The reply was issued in his capacity as Secretary-General of the SDP. Again, the SDP refused to deal with the issue. There is not one word in that letter which clarifies the position, one way or the other. 

 and its Secretary-General assume a duty, indeed undertake, to defend Singapore against unfair criticisms, but remain silent in the face of an assault on our judiciary, and indeed declare agreement with many things that Mr Seow has said, the irresistible conclusion must be that SDP's silence and conduct amount to a clear and unequivocal endorsement of that attack. 

    These are only illustrations. We should therefore ask ourselves why is it that those who discredit our judges choose to ignore such decisions. This House must demand that the SDP, indeed anyone wishing to make out a case against the judiciary, satisfy two tests: first, to show that the decisions in favour of the Government, the Senior Minister and the Prime Minister are so perverse that they cannot be justified on any view of the law. In that connection, the SDP must explain why is it that in some of those cases, the Privy Council has upheld the decisions of our Court of Appeal. The second test that the SDP has to satisfy is to demonstrate how the allegations against the judiciary are consistent with the fact that courts in Singapore have ruled against the Government. 

    The fact that SDP Members of Parliament were not at Williams College is, with respect, irrelevant. In all the material press statements and letters published in connection with this affair, Dr Chee has used the SDP notepaper, or signed off as Secretary-General of the party, or both. In his letter of 8th September 1995 to the Prime Minister he 

 said that he would put the SDP's alternative ideas of Singapore. In his 10th September 1995 press statement, he confirms that it is SDP which will participate at the counter panel discussion and that it is SDP's objective to clear any misperceptions. Dr Chee, as Secretary-General, was clearly authorised to issue the letters and statements on behalf of the party. Therefore, SDP was at Williams College and is in this House. More significantly, two of SDP's Members of Parliament are members of the bar. They are in a better position than Dr Chee to comment on the judiciary. 

    The SDP Members of Parliament have the following options in the face of this motion: they can either expressly repudiate their present endorsement for Mr Seow's views or they can maintain their support for his claims in which case they are duty bound to justify the basis of the criticism. 

    Now, the SDP, through its Secretary General, Dr Chee Soon Juan, has endorsed these allegations, cleverly using - so he thought - what Francis Seow and Christopher Lingle said at the alternative panel discussion at Williams College. He did not utter these words. He just happened to be present. But he denied other things which were untrue like chewing gum with a $1,000 fine or smoking marijuana carrying the death penalty. That is untrue. There is a Latin tag 

 approve the recommendations of the Committee of Privileges. The Committee of Privileges had to sit because of a complaint from the Minister for Health as a result of a written submission by the SDP research team and its Secretary-General. Since this Committee of Privileges Report concerns the four SDP members, it is important that the SDP MPs be present. Unfortunately, all three of the SDP MPs are in court today over some other matters. Since they are not here, I propose to adjourn this particular motion 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: I am afraid I lost him somewhere along the line. But I can agree with what he said about the rules of foreigners borrowing in our markets. The question that Mr Low wants answered is this notion that, as a country, we are over-extending ourselves in property. I think this is a macro-economic question. You look at your country's fixed investments, and you ask yourself what percentage is put in different so-called productive assets and non-productive assets. I think what he is trying to get is that we are putting too much in property, which is non-productive assets. 

    Mr Chiam raised a number of points, all of them, I think, relating to sale of shops. All the points were in fact covered in the press briefing that we had when we announced the sale of shops. But I would repeat the points. The shops will in almost all features be like shops in any commercial centre. The type of business is not controlled. They can do any type of business, provided it is something that the planners would approve, which also applies to private commercial developments. For example, we would not normally allow, say, a provision shop to be converted into a coffeeshop. We are trying to restrict the number of coffeeshops on the ground floors of HDB flats because coffeeshops operate late, they create a lot of noise and heat, and they affect the quality of life of residents in the block. That will be one of the considerations that planners will have when a change of use is applied for. But the change of use applications will apply not only to the HDB shops but also the shops in the private sector. HDB itself would not control the type of business they can conduct. 

    I think I have answered all the questions that Mr Chiam has raised. 

    Mr Low said the cost was not clearly spelt out. When we declare a precinct for upgrading, we will discuss with the Town Council what are the items that we propose, and the cost of the items. The Town Council can have full discussion with the 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, may I remind you that we are debating the Town Councils (Amendment) Bill and we are not debating the Bill on Group Representation Constituencies. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I will take Mr Low and Mr Chiam's comments on expanding the GRC separately. 

    Mr Chiam made a comment on the frequency of changes to the Act. Let me assure him that the objectives of the Town Councils Act have not changed. We are coming to the House today to make procedural changes that are required based on experience. In particular, he mentioned clause 2 which is intended to reduce the number of days during the transition. In the present Act, it is 180 days. We think that 90 days is sufficient for the transition. Previously, we provided for 180 days because it was a transition from HDB to Town Councils when the Town Councils were first formed. Now the Town Councils have been in operation for three years. They are going concerns and we think that we need only 90 days for a transfer after a general election or a change of boundaries after a general election. 

    He made another comment on the CATV. I think Mr Chiam has a very fertile mind and I thank him for the suggestion that the TV reception can be very poor if the CATV is poorly maintained. But let me assure him that that is not our intention. The reason why HDB took over the CATV is that HDB has the technical and the supervisory expertise to upgrade the CATV for the new facilities that will now be available to Singaporeans, in particular, subscription TV. I think Mr Chiam said that money is involved. Indeed money is involved. To upgrade all the antennae systems so that residents will be able to receive Teleview and subscription TV will cost the Government more than $60 million. He claimed that if you attach a modem on the antenna, you can pay for the entire block. The subscription fees, I think, will be covered by the Minister for Information and the Arts. I do not think he will allow the Town Councils to install a modem on the CATV that will facilitate the TV reception for the entire block without paying for all the units in that block. If a Town Council wants to install a modem on the CATV for the entire block, it will be charged for 100 units. So if the Town Councils want to pay for all and not pay according to individual user, I am sure he is quite happy to subscribe en bloc for the residents. 

    He raised the loss of the Low Chuck Tiew's collections in 1991 to Hong Kong. In fact, it could not have been avoided because at that time our museum was not prepared for it. I had the good fortune to meet Mr Low Chuck Tiew a few years before he passed away, to speak to him, to learn from him - a very erudite scholar. He had lived in Hong Kong for 40 years, felt very strong pulls to Hong Kong and felt a responsibility to leave his collection there. 

    The Member for Hougang asked about library services in Hougang. Sir, it must be noted that the library is indeed a provision of public service provided by the Government and all these years, the library service has been highly subsidised. The National Library does not make money and we have just set up a statutory board to run the library service and to move more aggressively into the future and to provide better services for the community. 

  The Chairman: We have run out of time, Mr Chiam. Mr Chen, would you please withdraw your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Sir, just to clarify Mr Chiam's point. He seems a little befuddled here. The point is that any national service defaulter who has an outstanding Police gazette against him for failure to perform his national service, failure to enlist, failure to complete his national service or staying away from the country beyond the validity of his exit permit, anyone who has an outstanding Police gazette and if he returns to 

    The current period of national service is just sufficient to train servicemen for combat service in NS units. A reduction will affect the combat effectiveness of our soldiers and our units. Mr Chiam has pointed to the 250,000 national servicemen that we have. We call them national servicemen now to recognise their front-line duties. Mr Chiam continues to call them reservists. I think Mr Chiam demonstrates the propensity to spend our reserves all the time. In this case, our 250,000 reservists have been built up over many decades. And the defence force that we have today is because we have built them up over many decades. To stop now would mean eroding the capability of the SAF. However, Mindef is flexible and those who are physically fit, who have made the effort to keep themselves fit and have made themselves fit for NS, have been given a 2-month shorter NS period. And that is because the fitness level that they have attained enables us to reduce the basic military training period, the first two months of which are devoted to bringing servicemen up to their fitness level. To-date, 33% of NS enlistees have attained this fitness standard. 

    Sir, while the regional situation is stable, we must not preclude the possibility that the security situation could turn stormy overnight. Mr Chiam is right that the situation today is different from the 60s and the 70s. But the future that we face is an uncertain one. It is not the peaceful, rosy future that Mr Chiam believes in. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, do you wish to withdraw your amendment? 

    Sir, I now turn to Mr Cheo and Mr Chiam. Mr Cheo offered a novel approach to the management of foreign worker population in Singapore. It is unfortunate that he is not here this afternoon to listen to my response. Unlike Mr Sinnakaruppan who urged the Government to be cautious, or even Mr Chiam who 

 expressed strong reservation yesterday on our growing dependence on foreign workers, Mr Cheo suggested that we should not regulate the entry of foreign workers by "quota or percentage". By percentage, I take it to mean our system of dependency ceiling or dependency ratio. Let me point out that we do not have a pre-set quota on the entry of foreign workers. We use the system of dependency ceiling such as 50% of foreign workers in the manufacturing sector or dependency ratio such as one local worker to five foreign workers in the construction industry, to control the number of foreign workers that can be employed by any one employer. By having different dependency limits, we are able to better meet the labour requirements of different economic sectors. 

    On top of the dependency limits, we impose a system of foreign workers' levy which varies according to the economic sectors. For example, $330 for a first-tier worker in the manufacturing sector and $440 for an unskilled worker in the construction industry. Mr Cheo suggested that we should abolish the foreign workers' levy system. I am afraid this will aggravate the problems already worrying both Mr Sinnakaruppan and Mr Chiam. Without the foreign workers' levy and the dependency limits, demand for foreign workers will grow rapidly. We already have more than 350,000 foreign workers in Singapore. This number can shoot up drastically. Wages of Singaporeans will be severely affected. The social cost can grow to intolerable proportion within a short time. I am afraid that Mr Cheo's suggestion is simply impracticable. 

    Mr Cheo complained that many contractors are forced to employ illegal workers because they cannot obtain work permits. This is not the experience of my Ministry's Enforcement Section. We have found that some of the worst offenders were actually contractors who had not bothered to apply for work permits for their workers. They had resorted to employing illegal workers simply because they wanted to avoid paying the foreign workers' levy. An example in mind is a contractor who was convicted last week for employing 105 illegal foreign workers. Not only was the contractor a first-time offender he was also the employer caught with the largest number of illegal workers. He had never applied for work permits for any of the 105 workers when he could have done so legitimately and obtained work permits for some, if not most of them. We can only conclude that the temptation to cheat on the levy is great for employers. In fact, the vast majority of contractors are operating well within the 1:5 dependency ratio. Only 8% of companies in the construction sector have exceeded the 1:5 ratio while another 10% are operating within the range of 1:4 to 1:5. The majority of contractors, 82% in fact, are still comfortably far from the dependency ceiling. 

    Mr Cheo may wish to note that in computing the dependency ceiling, non-construction local staff of the contractor can also be included. The local 

    Sir, not all of Mr Cheo's suggestions are completely impracticable. Yesterday he proposed that well-behaved foreign workers be given a longer work permit and maybe even considered for PR. In fact, my Ministry does encourage employers to send their foreign workers for training and skill upgrading. A foreign worker who succeeds to upgrade his skill and can pass certain trade tests is eligible for a longer stay in Singapore. Some may even qualify for PR on the basis of the skills that they have acquired during their period of working in Singapore. While it is not exactly on the basis of behaviour, as suggested by Mr Cheo, law-abiding, hardworking and skilful foreign workers are indeed given a chance to take up residence in Singapore. 

    Sir, on the point of abolishing levy for the employment of foreign domestic workers as suggested by Mr Cheo, there is no contradiction in the approach in imposing levy on foreign domestic workers and the effort to encourage women to rejoin the workforce. Women are free to remain at home to attend to their family needs or enter the workforce. For those who choose to rejoin the workforce, they can claim a tax relief of twice the amount of the foreign workers' levy paid for one foreign domestic worker employed by the working married woman or her husband. 

    Sir, may I now address Mr Chiam's points which he made yesterday? Mr Chiam expressed concern with the growing number of foreign workers. I have already pointed out that my Ministry monitors the growth of the foreign worker population carefully. We use the foreign workers' levy and the dependency limits to regulate the entry of foreign workers. The construction industry is most dependent on foreign workers because very few Singaporeans want to take up such jobs. This is not surprising in view of the higher education of our workforce and preference for jobs in other sectors. Unfortunately, the construction industry is also not making effort to upgrade its operation. Many contractors still depend on labour-intensive construction techniques. Others do not invest in labour saving equipment or construction systems. There is a need for the construction industry to raise its productivity which has lagged behind other economic sectors. For example, in 1995, productivity gain in the construction sector was minus 3.8%, compared to more than 6% in the manufacturing and service sectors. 

    With regard to the training of national servicemen in the Singapore Civil Defence Force, the skills they acquire in the Construction Brigade may encourage some to choose a career in the construction industry. However, I am in no position to provide Mr Chiam with the details on the training of national servicemen. I suggest that Mr Chiam take up the matter with the Minister for Home Affairs. 

  The Chairman: Mr Ling is not here. Mr Chiam. 

    Sir, it is unfortunate that Mr Ling is not in the Chamber right now. Last Monday, hoiyungasked whether CPF will pay a higher interest for savings under the revised Minimum Sum scheme. Mr Teo Chong Tee asked whether the CPF Board could peg the interest of CPF savings to fixed deposit interest. My Ministry recognises that CPF savings in the Special and Retirement Accounts are long-term savings. That is why with effect from 1st July 1995, savings in the Special and Retirement Accounts receive an additional interest of 1.25% over and above the interest paid for savings in the Ordinary Account. 

    Next, I would address the points raised by Mr Chiam. He asked how is it possible that in 1993, according to the CPF Annual Report, there were more withdrawals than annual CPF contributions. I have not seen the figures. I do not have the figures with me. I do not know whether the figures he quoted are correct or not. But I would like to tell Mr Chiam that CPF contributions and withdrawals are not linked, because of the way the CPF is operated. The CPF is not a pool fund. The withdrawals will depend upon whether more members are buying property and what are the prices of properties in any given year. And because CPF is a personalised savings account, it is entirely possible in any given year to have more members making withdrawals and to have more withdrawals than contributions in that year. Even though the withdrawals exceed contributions, there is no fear that members will in fact be losing their savings. It is because the CPF funds are kept as personal saving funds. The contributions that members put in will be the contributions that they can withdraw, 

    Sir, I am quite surprised that Mr Chiam should come to this Chamber to ask for a reduction in the CPF contribution rate. Because, if I remember correctly, only last Monday, by way of a Question for Oral Answer, he asked whether we would allow CPF members to use their Special Account savings in order to meet payments for their housing mortgages, implying that there is inadequate saving in the 

    Sir, a reduction in CPF contribution rate would also adversely affect many people who have already bought their homes. Currently, about 61,000 CPF members use more than 90% of their monthly contribution to the Ordinary Account to pay their housing mortgage loans. A reduction in the CPF contribution rate would require these members to use their cash savings to service their housing loans. This is precisely the position that Mr Chiam was concerned about in his Question for Oral Answer. 

    Sir, the Edusave Scheme has grown from strength to strength since our Prime Minister mooted the idea in 1991. The Edusave Scheme is so sound an idea that even the Member for Bukit Gombak has not found any reason to take potshots at the scheme, as he did in the case of housing and medical care. 

  The Chairman: Mr Cheo is not here. Dr Soin. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, no speeches. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, are you asking a question? 

  The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Encik Yatiman Yusof): Sir, I am not so sure how the Member for Bukit Gombak arrived at the figures that he mentioned and the conclusion he came out with. But just as Dr Michael Lim, I share our concern affecting the poor. 

    Sir, the question of PA rates has always been an issue of contention. They somehow are never enough and the eligibility criteria are always deemed to be strictly applied. Let me reiterate the philosophy of the Public Assistance scheme, that is, to provide basic subsistence for the truly destitute. So it is quite different, therefore, from what the Member for Bukit Gombak said when he compared it with the Minimum Sum or Retirement Account. They are for different target groups. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (8), Mdm Foo. I am afraid we are fast approaching "guillotine" time. And I will now have to ration the time very strictly amongst the Members who are scheduled to speak. Mdm Foo, you have two minutes to speak. Mr Low, you have two minutes. Mr Chiam, you have four minutes for your two subjects. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr Wong Kan Seng): I think Mr Chiam is not right when he says that for the PA's programmes the funds are expended for the benefit of the PAP. I think that is just insulting the residents and the people who use the PA's programmes. These programmes are for the benefit of all Singaporeans. Every year, thousands of activities are organised for senior citizens, for the young, for the kindergarten children. There was a whole host of other activities. That is why the money is used for the benefit of all these people who take part in our programmes. No PAP MP says, "I am doing this because I am a PAP Member." A PAP MP is appointed as an Advisor because we believe that he understands Government policies and therefore would be able to carry out Government policies. 

    PA is a Government organisation and being a Government organisation it must appoint people who can understand and support Government policies. I think it will be quite difficult for me to believe that Mr Chiam would support Government policies and therefore will champion the PA's cause. If he does, then he would not be sitting in the Opposition Bench. He will be part of the PAP. But to say that the PAP MP claims credit for the prizes won by the CC is just over-simplifying the issue. Whenever CCs win prizes, it is the grassroots leaders, the CCC, the MC and all those who have taken part in making the CC the best for winning the commendation medal or certificate. They are the ones who could claim the credit. The PAP MPs have given them the guidance but the work is really done by the grassroots leaders. 

    Mr Chiam is asking me to let him run his CC. I think it is very difficult unless he can support our policies. Is he able to support our policy and go round explaining 

  hoiyung: If Mr Chiam wants to know what the policies are, he himself should know better, because all of them are in the Hansard. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, Mr Wong has the floor. 

    With regard to developing champions, as has been mentioned by Mr Chiam, indeed an important element of SPEX 

 2000 is to identify and develop talent. As Mr Chiam has mentioned, we will try to widen this pool as much as we can and we will start in the schools definitely. The process of developing sports champions, however, is a very complex one because, besides training programmes and adequate funding, there are other factors and constraints to consider. For example, our population is small and the potential pool is, therefore, limited. And we also have different social and economic priorities to consider. But, notwithstanding these limitations, Singapore has produced champions and we are proud of them, like Zarinah Abdullah and Azman Abdullah. 

Cheo Chai Chen                Sidek bin Saniff

Lim Boon Heng                 Chiam See Tong

Lim Chun Leng, Michael        Low Thia Khiang

Cheo Chai Chen                Sidek bin Saniff

Lim Boon Heng                 Chiam See Tong

Lim Chun Leng, Michael        Low Thia Khiang

  The Chairman: I will confine the remaining speakers to two minutes each. Mr Chiam. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2), Mr Cheo is not here. Amendment No. (3), Mr Heng. 

    Sir, may I ask Mr Abdullah Tarmugi to respond to the questions from Dr Soin and Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, you have exceeded the time. Please return to your seat. 

    Mr Chiam also asked why we are not building the Sennett Station in the first phase of the North-East line project. I mentioned in my press conference that the reason why we are not building the three stations along the North-East line, not just the Sennett Station but also Woodleigh Station and Punggol Station, is for the very obvious reason that the developments around these stations are not comprehensive enough to justify the building of these three stations in the first phase. 

    Mr Chiam obviously disagrees. I am not surprised. But the consultants' report that was presented to my Ministry at that time made it very clear that the station in that vicinity would be the weakest station in 

 terms of ridership, ie, people getting on and off that station, under existing development plans. I remember giving a reply to Mr Chiam in this House concerning this fact. It is a weak station along that line because the mobility of people in that area does not create that kind of ridership. Of course, Punggol has no ridership because the new town is not there yet. For Woodleigh, it is similar, because the area around the Bidadari cemetery is also not yet reclaimed for redevelopment. Yes, the area around Sennett is full of residential units, but it is a low intensity residential area. Therefore, when we are able to acquire land parcels around the proposed station and when we fully redevelop that station, then we will be able to justify having a station in that particular area. And this is not something that is very unusual. 

    Mr Chiam may wish to know that in the case of the North-East line, we have actually gone one step further for these three stations and we are going to build the station box in the locations of these three stations, so that as and when the developments justify, we are able to construct that station. 

    Finally, the name of the station. Should it be Sennett? Should it be Potong Pasir? Should it be Alkaff? Should it be Woodsville? Should it be St. Andrew's? What is in a name? Anyway, I think Mr Chiam may be reassured if I were to tell him that the names of all these stations are still tentative. It would be finalised nearer the completion of the North-East line. The names of stations are chosen in order to easily identify the station with the location around the area, so that people generally 

  hoiyung: Mr Goh is not speaking. Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: I am sorry. Mr Low is pushing for some kind of a rebate for safety devices like air bags, etc. 

    Mr Ling then went on to say and I quote: 

    Mr Ling continued: 

    Sir, in other words, Mr Ling is saying that the Government is not really subsidising Singaporeans, and that the Government has misled Singaporeans about its subsidy of healthcare costs. 

    Mr Ling was picking up an item in the latest issue of the New Democrat entitled "The Truth About Health Care Costs", which alleged that "healthcare costs are hardly subsidised at all." On 15th March, during the Committee of Supply debate on the Health Ministry, I said: 

    `... the SDP in a recent issue of the New Democrat talked about "the truth about healthcare costs" in Singapore. Really, it should be "falsehoods about healthcare costs", and those are falsehoods which Mr Ling repeated in this Chamber. We all know, in fact, that polyclinic charges are much cheaper than GP charges. In fact, they are a third to a half less than for general practitioners - about $10 versus $18 for coughs and colds, about $25-$30 versus $50-$80 for chronic conditions. And that is not taking into account the fact that children and the elderly pay half price. The overall subsidy level for polyclinics is about 50%.' And I added at the time: 

    `If the SDP persists in such misleading comments, I am willing to have a public committee to verify the numbers.' 

    `... across the board, the data is clear. I strongly urge the SDP to print a correction in the New Democrat for misleading the public in this very outrageous way.' 

    `... in the Budget Debate, he compared bed charges. He does not understand that some private hospitals, in order to bait and switch, deliberately market bed charges low and everything else they add on and pile on. But, as for the public hospitals, we are very honest and straightforward. Our bed charges cover all kinds of incidentals. These figures are compiled every 6 months. They are updated and they are available in the Internet. Maybe, the SDP should highlight the MOH's webpages in the next issue of the New Democrat.' 

    Sir, having corrected Mr Ling in this Chamber, I urged him to retract SDP's allegations. But I also said that if the SDP persisted in misleading the public, then I was prepared to have a public committee to verify the numbers. On 18th March, the SDP issued a press statement welcoming the establishment of such a public committee and looking forward to taking part. 

 are. Either the Government has misled the people of Singapore, or the SDP has. This is a matter of fact, not a political opinion. To establish the facts beyond doubt, I propose that Parliament appoint a Select Committee to Verify the Healthcare Subsidy of Government Polyclinics and Public Hospitals with the following terms of reference: 

    To provide the details which Mr Chiam has asked for enables a Member of Parliament to pry into the investments of Ministers. 

    If Mr Chiam believes that there has been wrongdoing on the part of Ministers in their purchase of private residential properties, he should let me or the Commercial Affairs Department (CAD) or the CPIB have the evidence. They will pursue the matter. 

  hoiyung: Since Mr Chiam asked me the question, I circulated the question to all Ministers. They have given me their details of whether they have bought or not bought properties in pre-launch or soft-launch offers in the years which Mr Chiam asked for. Other than Senior Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, no other Minister has bought any private residential property under those terms. One Minister has bought a property but it was at a public launch. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Cheo has asked where will the new community library in Yishun be sited and when will it be operational. 

    Sports and TV stars are valuable, not because the sports maker thinks well of the sportsmen. He wants to sell his product. And having it used by a star well-known throughout the world, adds value to the product. Sellers want customers who are celebrities or, otherwise depending on the product, well-known and admired public people. So you see Mr Chiam had to sue a restaurant because they said that he ate at that restaurant. I do not know whether the food was good or bad, but Mr Chiam objected strenuously. He is not unknown. I am sure, if he were unknown, the judge would have given him a pittance, but he is Chiam See Tong with a record of many years in public life. 

    So let us be a little realistic and do not expect that the Government can force the private sector to give the professionals a level playing field. No. It is their business. They want to get the best customer that will help them sell the product and add value. I ask all of you to be honest, including Mr Chiam. He has this experience, I am sure, or he would not have been used for that advertisement. All Ministers who carry weight, all Parliamentary Secretaries, all MPs who are popular, you go to a hawker centre. If they give other customers one egg, they will give you two. I know because when I was campaigning in the 1950s before I was Prime Minister, I used to go to Koek Road, the best char kway teow there, other people for 50 cents got one egg. I got two. I said, "No, don't do this, you lose money." They said, "No, I want you to win." 

    Sir, before I sit down, may I say that I notice that the unofficial Leader of the Opposition, the hon. Member for Bukit Gombak, Mr Ling, is not present in this House. I am also surprised to find out that he is not listed down to speak on this subject. As he is the unofficial Leader of the Opposition, I am sure that Members of this House, and indeed members of the public, will be most interested to hear his views and comments. Does he think that there was impropriety or does he agree with the Prime Minister that the transactions were all above board and not improper? I sincerely hope to hear Mr Ling in the House tomorrow on this topic. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, will you give way? 

    Ask yourself, Mr Chiam, be honest. We are going to have an election soon. You are an honest man. I hope you will be re-elected. Because at the end of the day, you are basically an honest man. Do not deceive people. You say, "Declare this." Mr Cheo says, "Announce everything." Mr Chiam, would you like to declare your income, although it is known to Inland Revenue? Would you like to declare your assets? No candidate would join the PAP, especially a successful one, if he has got to do that. Maybe hoiyung: Sir, just as the Senior Minister, I am also concerned about the survival of Singapore. My perception is that salary cannot be everything. We want good men. Sure, we want honest people. I know it is difficult to get them. I also have had bitter experience in dealing with people in my Party. 

  Mr Lee Kuan Yew: Hear, hear! What about Mr Cheo? He has no opinion. 

 honour to be a judge. You finished your Bar, practice, your last year as a silk was tax-free, which was a vast sum. Then you went on the Bench, easier life, prestige, position. But now you pay tax even on your last year. So there is no nest-egg. And the quality of judges has not been of the best. Judges who have gone on the Bench, gone up to the Court of Appeal, being promoted, have decided, unprecedented in the old days, to resign and become arbitrators where they are paid per diem. Think about it, Mr Chiam. 

    Please do not unwittingly deceive people who may well listen and believe that there will be so many Chiam See Tongs who are so willing to sacrifice that they can run the government. That has not been so in any country in the world. You have seen Japan, the monies involved. You have seen Korea. You have seen Taiwan - what they call "black mafia". You have seen Italy. You know the British have run into all these sleaze problems which never happened in my days as a student then. It was unthinkable. But if you pay Ministers that salary, when they in private life can earn more, you force them to take holidays at their risk in Paris, on a house account, which does a Minister no good. Better our style, and I say it is an honourable straight system and we answer for it every time. 

  Mr Lee Kuan Yew: Mr Chiam, I have just explained that I would not get rich with my salary. It is my wife's earnings. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do I understand you that in order for people to respect me, I must be poor? 

    Before I go to the other areas, let me address some of the issues raised by Mr Chiam. I seem to have missed them out. He has requested MND not to overlook Toa Payoh Lorong 8. I was about to say that this is constantly on my mind. But since I did not answer him, obviously I have overlooked it again. He asked what has happened to the 10%-20% who did not vote for upgrading and what were the reasons. There are several reasons why these 10%-15% did not vote for upgrading. Most of the reasons are personal to the lessees. Some may feel that they are getting on in age, so why is there a need to upgrade. Some may be putting a "no" vote because they are quite confident that all their neighbours will put a "yes" vote, and they want to be different and want this to be a "protest" vote. The advisers will go round explaining to the residents that, by all means, they are free to vote what they like. And if they put in a "protest" vote, they should not be surprised that they may end up with more than 25% protest votes and no upgrading. And I am stating very categorically here that I respect the voting results of every precinct. So if any precinct did not succeed in getting the 75% vote, there will not be a re-vote. 

    As to whether we should extend it beyond 99 years, Mr Chiam has suggested six more years. I am not sure why he suggested six years because many of these flats are 25 or 30 years old. By the time they are due for upgrading, and giving them six years' extension to their lease from 75 to 81 years, does not seem to help them very much. I can understand the request if, at the time of upgrading the remaining lease was 75 years, and Government tops it up to 99 years. But to extend it by another six years, I am not sure what is the purpose. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam also suggested that HDB flats be reconfigured to collect and store rain water during the upgrading. I am not sure whether Mr Chiam understands. The problem with Singapore is not a space for storing water. The problem is catchment and clean catchment areas to collect water. So if you provide a big tub on the roof of HDB flats to collect water, you will not collect very much water. You need to collect water from a much bigger catchment area. Maybe Mr Chiam was inspired by the New Paper cartoon in response to the debate on conservation of water. There was a cartoon which shows HDB flats with umbrellas to collect rain water. But I can tell you that this is not feasible and therefore it is not part of our upgrading programme. 

    Mr Cheo asked about the hot spring in Sembawang. He asked four questions. First question: what is the condition? I am afraid I do not know what is the exact condition. The site of the hot spring has been acquired by Mindef for its use in the expansion of Sembawang Air Base. So the actual site of the hot spring is within Mindef's property. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Low, you started speaking in Mandarin. Could you please carry on in Mandarin? 

    Sir, it is referred in the item which Mr Low has talked about that the full sum of the cyclical works grant had been disbursed to all the town councils by FY93. But, in the process, there were other claims from the town councils and these were evaluated according to the formulas which we have promulgated right from the start and, in evaluating them, some additional claims were made and these were found to be correct and the funds were disbursed. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

    I hear that in the case of Hougang CCC, just before hoiyung: Sir, can I seek clarification from Mr Chiam? 

  The Chairman: Yes, on what Mr Chiam said. 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang: Sir, whether Mr Chiam is now the Leader of the Opposition or whether he belongs to the Workers' Party, I thought he should actually drive home the point of what he really wants from the Ministry for Potong Pasir, rather than Hougang because hoiyung: Sir, I would like to ask Mr Choo Wee Khiang on what position is he questioning. 

  The Chairman: It is all right. We will proceed with the business. Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: Sir, can I seek clarification before the Senior Parliamentary Secretary answers Mr Chiam's question? 

 wherever, or should we put them nearer to where they are used to living. Therefore, it is not a question of deciding on these two blocks of flats. Sir, I hope that Mr Low will understand this. 

    I think Mr Chiam is not afraid of any PAP candidate there. Good for him. He still does not understand what he fails to understand. Never mind. He asked that we change the rules of CIPC. I would like to ask him: what changes does he propose? 

  Mr Matthias Yao Chih: Thank you. Mr Chiam could not come out with a proposal. 

    SDP's request and Mr Cheo's suggestion that candidates openly declare their income and assets is neither necessary nor sufficient condition for keeping politics clean. (Those who know mathematics know this phrase -- necessary and sufficient conditions). Character and integrity of the candidates are not necessarily in direct or inverse proportion to their incomes and assets. If an outstanding billionaire banker with an 

    Sir, yesterday, Mr Chiam talked about younger Singaporeans being unhappy because of the high salaries of Ministers. But let us not forget that young professionals are paid very well too. According to the Labour Force Survey 1994, only 42% of the Singapore's monthly wage bill went towards paying the rank and file workers who make up 67% of the workforce and the remaining 58% of the wage bill went to pay professionals, managerial, and technical people, who only make up 33% or one-third of the workforce. And Singapore's senior managers are commanding world class gross wages which are 11% higher than Paris, 50% higher than London and 66% higher than Sydney. So, let us not think that only Ministers are being paid well. Professionals too, especially our senior professionals. But of course, the younger professionals have to be a bit more patient to get there. But you will probably get there if you work hard. So let us not cast that green eye at others who are better off than us. And especially let us not gripe at how many properties Senior Minister Lee or DPM got or how much Minister's salary is. We have benefited tremendously from the system that Senior Minister and his generation of leaders have set up for Singapore. Mr Goh Chok Tong and his team are continuing the good work of their predecessors. Yesterday, Senior Minister said that his wife, Mrs Lee, was so uncomfortable about the whole issue that she felt that Singaporeans were ungrateful. I urge all young Singaporeans, please let us not be regarded as an ungrateful generation. 

 and might have unnecessarily read between the lines and came to wrong conclusions, and hence the insinuations and innuendoes. Now that they are aware of the details after the debate yesterday, they must be reassured that nothing was amiss. Even the SDP and the Workers' Party who are never slow to challenge the Government, have so far made no accusations at Senior Minister or DPM Lee. They know that nothing was amiss. As such, they want to dwell on peripheral issues. The SDP made a press statement asking PAP candidates to declare their assets at the next general election and the Workers' Party wanted HPL to review its price policies. These issues have no direct linkage whatsoever to the matter at hand. 

    Sir, Senior Minister and DPM Lee have forthrightly decided to bring this matter here for public scrutiny. The Opposition MPs in this House must come up and speak on the issue and state their position and their Party's position clearly. Mr Cheo spoke yesterday, but he has not stated his position or his Party's position. Obviously, he has no position and he is not sitting in his position today. I hope he comes because the Leader of the House has said that speakers can speak more than once in this debate. So I hope Mr Ling, who is here, will convey this. I hope that Mr Ling, being the unofficial Leader of the Opposition, will state his position. I challenge him and Mr Cheo to come out and make their position clear, or forever hold their peace. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the Member has missed the point completely. The issue here is whether there was anything amiss in the purchases by Senior Minister or DPM, and the Workers' Party has not come out with a position on this. They are looking at the peripheral issue of prices of property of HPL, which is not the issue here. 

    The speeches of Mr Cheo and Mr Chiam yesterday raised another issue. Mr Cheo argued that Ministers are under a duty to serve the people and not make money. Mr 

    These arguments are superficially attractive but are wholly untenable. Mr Cheo and Mr Chiam have either ignored or confused the principles which determine the duties and obligations of Ministers. Let me deal with this issue first, and I begin from first principles. 

    Any uneasiness over a Minister's right to accept similar invitations is the result of a confusion between two distinct propositions, a confusion which regrettably Mr Cheo and Mr Chiam had fed in this House. There are two propositions. The first (which is true) that Ministers are trustees of our assets and hold positions of influence, and the second (which is untrue) that they should, while looking after the future of the people, not plan for their own children's future even when the integrity of their trusteeship is not compromised. 

    Indeed, this is what Mr Cheo and Mr Chiam appeared to be saying. Mr Cheo said that Ministers are under a duty to serve and not make money. The same point is made by Mr Chiam who argues that there is a perception that Ministers who purchase properties are not sacrificing. There is no excuse for either of them to obfuscate the issues. 

    As for DPM, those who have worked with him will testify to the intensity of his devotion. Did he buy his second house for speculation, as insinuated by Mr Chiam? I do not think so. As a family man, when you are struck down by illness at a young age, what do you do? You worry about your wife, you worry about your children, and you must quickly make plans to cater for their future. And he did just that. To him, property is the best option requiring the least attention. Property is tied to the future of Singapore's well-being. And he has tied the family's future to the future of Singapore. I can sympathise with him on that. 

    The Workers' Party asked for a commission of inquiry into all the discounts given by HPL. It did not ask for a commission to inquire into purchases by the Senior Minister and by me. Neither has it suggested that either SM or I had done anything wrong. The Workers' Party, as you all know, is hardly slow to accuse us of wrongdoing, even when there is none. In other words, in this case, even the Opposition parties know that we did nothing wrong, but the Workers' Party lacks the political courage and the honesty to say so, unlike Mr Chiam who stated clearly yesterday "that there was no question of illegality or improper behaviour." I say Mr Chiam because we do not know what the SDP's position is. We will learn later. We did not learn yesterday from Mr Cheo. 

    Then I discussed it with SM. He was also instinctively against it. But after that, I thought it over. I thought that perhaps there might be merit in making a gesture, to re-emphasise that I did not buy because of the discounts I was given, whether I knew them or did not know them. Although there was merit in making a gesture, I wanted to make sure that the gesture did not set a precedent that Ministers should not in future accept any discounts, however legitimate in buying properties, the precedent which Mr Chiam sought to draw yesterday. I knew that the PM intended to make rules for Ministers to clear their purchases with him beforehand, for future purchases. So I thought that one way would be for me to voluntarily subject myself to the PM's proposed new rules, and then to put the matter beyond doubt that if the PM has had to look at my purchases under the new rules, and decide whether to approve them, we give the discounts away. Then he looks at it as if we are buying without receiving any discount whatever, there is no reason for him to say, "This is a doubtful case. Disapprove." We did not want to presume on an ex post acceptance of a deal which was already done. 

    Mr Chiam believed that the fuss is because the sums involved in these properties seem so large and beyond comprehension to somebody earning $2,000 a month. Does he agree then with hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I seek clarification from the Deputy Prime Minister? 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Mr Chiam has made a fairly serious allegation. Hearing him, I would conclude that he has been thinking that some of our Ministers are in fact doing what he said, ie, speculating. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I agree with Mr Chiam. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Can I explain? Mr Chiam has said and I repeat, for the record, that there was no reason whatsoever for me and the Senior Minister to return the discounts at all. 

  hoiyung: Point of order. Sir, we are here debating about PM's statement on the HPL purchases. I do not think we need a long explanation from Mr Ling as to why he 

 cannot take part. If he cannot take part, he just cannot take part. If he cannot get leave from the court, he should find a way to explain it to the court. And if the court cannot grant an adjournment, then he should draft a statement and give it to his colleague, Mr Chiam or Mr Cheo, and say that this is the Chairman's statement and be done with it. There is no need to give us a long explanation as to why he cannot speak in this House. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, I think you have made your point. Would you like to carry on? 

  hoiyung: May I ask on a point of information? When did Mr Ling come to the conclusion that there was no wrongdoing, that it was right and proper, and that DPM and I should have kept the money? Can I ask him when was the point of time when he came to that conclusion? 

 have testified to the commission that as a practising lawyer, he, Ling How Doong, knew that this is normal property developer's practice? 

  hoiyung: Sir, since my name has been mentioned, I had better tell you exactly what we spoke. When I saw his name was not on the list, I asked him, "You are the leader of the SDP, at least in this House. You must make a stand. There is a debate going on. Why are you not talking?" And he said exactly what he said just now. I just want to put it on record. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I wish to ask Mr Ling to clarify his party's statement. I read in the Straits Times of 9th May that his party was reported to have urged the PAP to require all Ministers and MPs to declare their incomes, investments and assets publicly. On declaring assets, it said, "the practice of Ministers reporting such details to the Prime Minister was inadequate." Why is it inadequate? The Prime Minister has explained why and how Ministers have to declare at the beginning of every term and that he informs the President. So why did the SDP consider this not adequate? 

 Minister or Deputy Prime Minister Lee in this matter of purchase of properties. The fact that this House is debating an issue involving none other than SM and DPM Lee shows the courage and fearlessness of the PAP and the Government to open itself to scrutiny. SM and DPM have also shown that they have nothing to hide as it was they who had asked for this debate. Mr Chiam has said that the Opposition did not ask for this debate. Many have mentioned to me that there is actually no need for such a debate. hoiyungasked for his opinion. He dismissed it as "ridiculous", as discounts are a part of daily 

    Mr Chiam is wrong. SM and DPM Lee have not only the legal, but they have the moral right to lead us after all that they have done in this House, after the way in which they have to bare themselves and their whole families to all of us - something which they never need to have done. 

    Yesterday, Mr Chiam spoke of commitment. We all agree with him. There must be commitment. But I believe what is implied in his message was that PAP MPs or Ministers lack this commitment because of the matter of money. I hope that he will seriously take the advice of SM and think again on what this would mean for Singapore and the future. 

    Mr Chiam had said so, hoiyung: can Singapore continue, be successful after the first generation is gone? There are many doubters. In fact, many still believe that because I am in Cabinet, therefore it is me that is able to keep up these standards and that therefore things have not deteriorated. That once I am gone, so will this pristine quality. 

    If you start paying the DPM what he was paid before it was pegged to the private sector, should he stay on? Yes, says Mr Chiam, we all should. Maybe he would. But for how long, when he can make more? Maybe he would, not wanting to make more, because his father did this and he feels he may be under an obligation. But you cannot run the system. The system will malfunction unless it is monitored and adjusted. And I say this very seriously, that the salary adjustments were part of the process of clean and honest Government. 

    Sir, I would also make some observations on what Mr Chiam said yesterday. Mr Chiam raised the issue of Ministerial salaries again and said that this was the reason for the public concern over these purchases. I think we should keep the issues separate. On salaries, I will say to Mr Chiam again what I have said previously. We should ask what kind of persons do we want as Ministers. It is accepted, I think, (1) public office is a calling; (2) it requires a person with interest in society and a desire to contribute to change things; and (3) such a person must be exceptionally bright. The point is this. When one considers accepting public office, the questions you want that person to ask himself are: (1) Can I contribute? (2) Am I good enough? (3) Am I cut out for this job? (4) Do I have the motivation? You do not want him to ask another question: can I afford it? 

    If the potential Minister is of the highest calibre, then you would either agree he would be earning very well or will have the potential to do so. Such a person in general might be willing to serve in public office only when there is no substantial financial sacrifice involved in the move. It must be seemless so far as the financial aspects are considered. Money should not be an attraction but neither should it be an impediment. That is the real point that I think Mr Chiam should accept. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your question is out of order. No reference is to be made to any rumour. 

  hoiyung: The present practice has worked very well and there is no compelling reason whatsoever to change the practice. Mr Chiam suggested that we should change the practice in order to eradicate illegal gambling. I do not see that as a compelling reason for us to change the current practice of having an election within a certain date as stipulated in the Constitution. May I suggest that Mr Chiam should always be ready for election which may be called at any time before the due date. 

  Assoc. Prof. Ho Peng Kee: I think the so-called hazard that Mr Low has mentioned arises essentially from the newness of the scheme and the fact that drivers are not keeping to the speed limits. Therefore, when they are approaching the camera, they slow down. If this exercise has its desired impact of reminding Singaporeans that there are speed limits, it is for their benefit as well as for the benefit of public safety to keep to the speed limits, when this gets to the ground over time, this so-called hazard that Mr Low mentioned will not be present any more. 

  hoiyung: It would seem that Mr Low is actually suggesting the installation of more cameras. 

  hoiyung: I think we must bear in mind that Singapore is an urban setting where our roads are used not just by motorists who have high capacity cars like Volvos and Mercedeses but also motorists who drive smaller capacity cars. Also the types of drivers in Singapore are of such a wide diversity. Some are more experienced, perhaps like Mr Chiam, and others are less experienced. All things considered, it is better to heed the professional advice of the Committee and keep the speed limits as they are. 

  hoiyung: I think I should say this. The Traffic Police has taken a pragmatic approach towards enforcing speed limits. In other words, consideration is given to people who may exceed the speed limits by a certain amount because, after all, sometimes we have to speed up when we overtake. There are situations when we may exceed the speed limit. I think this is something that I am sure Mr Chiam will agree - that it is good judicious enforcement. 

    However, in response to the Member for Potong Pasir's concern, I have instructed HDB to increase the number of patrols by HDB parking wardens in Potong Pasir in order to prevent illegal parking and to deter car thefts, vandalism and other misdemeanours. The Member will be glad to know that these increased patrols have over the last three nights resulted in HDB issuing 600 parking offences. I assure the Member that HDB will keep up its effort to reduce illegal parking and deter car thefts and vandalism in Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, no speeches. Ask your question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, no speeches. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, could you ask your question? You are making long statements. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, are you asking your question? If you are making a speech, I will ask you to resume your seat. Ask your question now. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have asked HDB to enquire from the Neighbourhood Police Post in Potong Pasir whether there was indeed a higher incidence of crime in Potong Pasir or not. I am afraid that I have not got the data. But from the overall macro-data that I have received, the rate of crimes in car parks in Singapore is in fact very low. On the average, two crimes of theft from and theft of cars are committed per car park per year. So with that kind of low crime rate, there is no need to deploy special security guards for the car parks. But, knowing Mr Chiam's concern, I assure him that HDB will deploy extra parking wardens in Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, when I received the Question for Oral Answer, I felt that Mr Chiam probably had a problem in Potong Pasir. So I asked HDB to gather information on the ground. As a result, in the last three days they have deployed extra parking wardens to ensure better safety and less illegal parking in Potong Pasir. That is the reason why we have got 600 parking offences. I assure the Member that this exercise will continue and we will eradicate illegal parking in Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: What is your question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as with many of my colleagues on the Frontbench, we take Questions very seriously from Members. So when we receive a Question like this, I have to ask HDB what is the situation on the ground because Potong Pasir was not involved in the revision of car parking charges in the 23 precincts. So obviously something must be amiss in Potong Pasir that prompted Mr Chiam to raise the Question. So I asked them to check and they told me that there was in fact rampant illegal parking in Potong Pasir. I told them that, as Mr Chiam is very keen to remove illegal parking, we should provide a higher level of service. So the parking wardens will continue to go down and provide this level of service for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, never mind what the Minister has said. What is your question? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, you will rise only when I allow you to, and you will rise to ask questions. Do you have any more questions? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam has misunderstood me. You do not have to be a member of a political party before you let your viewpoint be known. You can make commentary occasionally or regularly. But if you wish to change a particular policy in Government and you do take a position, you make criticisms regularly, then, of course, you must expect us to regard you as wanting to influence the political agenda of the country. And if it is a simple matter of constructive debate, you will get a constructive reply. But if you try to undermine the authority of the Government through snide remarks, by mocking the Government, you must expect a very, very hard blow from the Government in return. We return the compliment. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam has got me wrong. They are encouraged to speak up, as I said in my very first sentence in reply to NMP Walter Woon. There are times when valid points have been made by members of the public and we do give due recognition to the points and we do modify policies or our position, if we think that they are right in their point of view. But if we think they are wrong and we are right, then we have to correct that mistaken viewpoint. And they are free to make their viewpoints known. There is no repression of their viewpoints whatsoever. That is the question which Walter Woon has asked and I have replied that I encourage active constructive debate. 

    I think it is wrong for Mr Chiam to become complacent, thinking that since everything is good in Singapore, we have full employment, there is no need for us to offer incentives in order to attract foreign investments. We are in a highly competitive world. Many countries are still continuing to compete for foreign investments. I think we must continue to make our incentives attractive enough to attract foreign investments. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, maybe the Member for Potong Pasir was too deeply involved with other matters. This was announced in the press. 

  hoiyung: I do not understand the Member too. Mr Chiam, could you ask your supplementary question? 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Mr Chiam, could you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you get to the point and ask your supplementary question? If you have no further points, please resume your seat. 

    Mr Chiam's quarrel with PA and how the CCC is structured, I suggest he raise this under his cut on the CCC. But to suggest that because he is in Parliament, therefore, we must change a long lasting and long established practice which has worked very well is not necessary. The point is, from MND's position, we have got these funds to subsidize improvement projects. We look for a body within the constituency that can coordinate various requests and help disburse the funds. Where is this body? There is one, which is the CCC, and it was established a long time ago. The URSC had worked very well with the CCCs all this while. 

    Mr Chiam says conditions have changed. It is not the same as 1965. I am glad conditions have changed. There were more Opposition Members in 1965 than there are now. So his suggestion about changing the rules is not based on sound arguments. All he wants is the control of the money. The CIPC and URSC have never given money direct to MPs. We do not give them to PAP MPs. We do not give them to Opposition MPs. I do not think we need to change the rules. 

  Mr Matthias Yao Chih: Sir, Mr Low does not understand my answer. I shall repeat it. We cannot give the money to the town council because the town council can only spend money and work within the HDB estate. So if we give the money to the town council, none of this money can be used in private estates. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the town council cannot put up a proposal and ask for money for improvement works outside of an HDB estate. That is the simple position, as provided by the law. Mr Chiam understands that. 

  hoiyung: Thank you. On Mr Chiam's question, all I want to say is this. Mr Chiam does not want this money to be used in a politically motivated manner. So the best solution for all of us is, let us give this money to the CCC, as we have done since 1965 and let the CCC recommend and decide on its priorities. The money does not go to the PAP MP and it does not go to the Opposition MP. It is fair for all. So my position on Mr Chiam's and Mr Low's suggestion is that there is no need to change the present system. 

  Mr Matthias Yao Chih: May I suggest to Mr Low that he discontinues with his line of questioning because it makes no sense and he knows it, but he does not want to give up. 

    As for Mr Chiam, his quarrel is really with his CCC in Potong Pasir. I do not hear this quarrel from the other Opposition Members with their own CCC. He has got an amendment under the CCC subhead and I suggest that he brings this up under that amendment. 

    Mr Chiam's proposal does not get the support of the CCC of Potong Pasir. It is not the concern of the CIPC. The CIPC's job is to look at applications and make sure that the applications are reasonable, feasible and effective, and give the fund in support of these projects. 

  hoiyung: Order. Yes, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I just want to clarify from the Member. Before we debate further on whether the responsibility of approving funds for improvement works in the Opposition constituencies should fall with MND or MCD, I think we should get back to the basic question. The general care of the constituency must be the responsibility of the MP. I do not think the Member should pass the buck from our shoulders to MND or MCD. Sir, the complaint made by the Opposition Members, Mr Chiam and Mr Low, is basically that the Opposition wards could not get funds from CIPC for improvement works in their constituencies. In other words, because of this situation, the Members now complain that they 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang: Let me finish. I think the grassroots organisations know exactly what is happening in the constituency. They have RC and CCC members, most of whom are local residents. They know exactly which spot to be improved. It is not the MPs because we do not stay in our own constituency. So I think it is better to leave it to RCs and CCCs to come up with proposals which we all are very happy. If Mr Chiam has any proposal in regard to the application of CIPC fund, he should approach Mr Gan and Mr Gan will decide in consultation with the RC and CCC members. If it is reasonable, I am sure the Chairman of CIPC will be more than pleased to approve. 

  Encik Mohamad Maidin B P M: Yes, Sir. This fresh point, in fact, was indirectly raised by Mr Low. Now he is saying that it is the responsibility of the PAP Government to help the Opposition Members so that they can win the next election. This was what he said. But that does not come under the MND budget, Sir. 

  hoiyung: Order. We have taken 15 minutes yesterday on this discussion, and almost half an hour today. I will ask Mr Yao to reply and then Mr Chiam can give his concluding remarks. 

  Mr Matthias Yao Chih: Sir, with your indulgence, I agree with my PAP colleagues in their unanimous response to Mr Low. Please read the Act and then come back. 

    Mr Chiam's point, if I can summarise it, is this. The Ministry of National Development should change the system because under the present system, the Opposition constituencies will never get any funding from CIPC. That is the point. The day the CIPC approves funding for any project in any Opposition constituency will prove his point wrong. When the day comes, I hope he withdraws all that he says. With that, Sir, at this point, it is not necessary to change the system. It has worked well and it will continue to work well. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, would you like to wind up the debate? 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (4), Mr Chiam. 

    Just to recapitulate, to remind Mr Chiam and Mr Cheo, why we have these grassroots organisations. I think Mr Chiam also 

    Mr Chiam says that he had noticed that these organisations have been helping to promote prospective PAP candidates. If they indeed do so, I see nothing wrong in that because if they find that that adviser is worthy of support and they want to help him, so be it. But we have not compelled anyone in these grassroots organisations to say that they must help a PAP man. We have not given such a policy directive. If the grassroots organisations and the members and volunteers feel that they want to help the adviser, by all means. There is nothing wrong in that. I do not know what Mr Chiam meant by his observation that this has been done. Maybe he has some examples of how the grassroots organisations have helped to promote the interest of the prospective PAP candidate. Has he got any example? 

  hoiyung: I thank Mr Chiam for enlightening me as to what was 

 bugging him. If he says that Mr Andy Gan should not be walking about, then Mr Andy Gan must actually move out of Potong Pasir. Mr Andy Gan himself stays in Potong Pasir. So he has to walk around Potong Pasir. There is nothing wrong with that. Unless he wants him to live outside of Potong Pasir, but even then there is nothing to prevent a citizen from walking anywhere in Singapore. If he is the adviser of the constituency, all the more he should walk around to understand the needs of the constituents and what he can do for them. When he is able to do something for them, he will understand and appreciate the concerns and problems that the constituents face. It is perfectly legitimate as an adviser. If he did not do that, I would say that was a dereliction of duty. I am glad to hear Mr Chiam saying that Mr Andy Gan has been very active. 

    Mr Chiam says that the RC notice boards have been used to promote the news concerning the adviser. What did Mr Andy Gan put up? I anticipate that Mr Chiam may raise this question. So I asked what the RCs in Potong Pasir have actually done. They said that there is one article dated 24th December 1994 which they put up. Mr Andy Gan was interviewed by the Straits Times. This was an interview about what Mr Gan would do and his views about the constituency, his concerns, and the problems and difficulties he faces in an Opposition town council. I think that was a very good interview that he gave. 

 indeed in Potong Pasir and able to do this for the residents, the Prime Minister would be very happy to go and open the new project if it happens in Potong Pasir. But it is not the PAP candidate's news or the adviser's news that is being communicated to the residents. I am also told that even news concerning the SDP was also publicised in the RC notice boards. One was an article concerning the SDP entitled "SDP - their appearance and their reality", written by Ng Wei Joo, who found out what was brewing within the SDP and its leadership. They put it up so that people would know the kind of problem that their MP, who is an SDP MP, is facing in his own party. I think they have every reason to be informed. There is nothing wrong with that either. 

    I am also told that residents were also informed about what Dr Richard Hu, our Finance Minister, has said about the Budget. What is in it for them in the Budget. If the residents have missed the chance to read this in the papers because they are too busy, they can read it in the notice board. Again, there is nothing wrong with that. But if Mr Chiam objects to RC notice boards being used to purvey or communicate news, activities or articles concerning the residents, their MP, or their adviser, then does he object to the town council doing the same thing? Can he tell me? 

  hoiyung: In other words, Mr Chiam does admit that even for a town council, where he is the Chairman, and all of us are either Chairman or members of town councils, we do from time to time make use of the town council to publicise activities of the candidate or the MP. 

  hoiyung: I am not saying that Mr Chiam should not or cannot do it. I think it is fair. He is quite right. In fact, publicising the news of the adviser is not new. Many constituencies have done it, including mine. So I think it is quite a fair game for the RCs, CCCs and the MCs to keep the residents informed of things that are happening in the constituency, including news concerning their MPs or advisers. That is fair enough, does he not think so? 

  hoiyung: They do? Then Mr Chiam must understand that the PCF is run by the PAP. It is the PAP Community Foundation kindergarten. So obviously the PAP Community Foundation kindergarten has to take care of all the children in the constituency. When we have too many children going for an inadequate number of places, then there must be a certain priority to be given to the children. And depending on the vacancies, if certain children cannot find a place, it cannot be helped. But I am not saying that they would not be able to find a place. They can find a place. They can go to the People's Association kindergartens. There is nothing to stop any Opposition Member from sending their children to the People's Association kindergartens, which I believe Mr Low has done. So we are quite open. The PA is very neutral, as far as admitting children of citizens into their kindergartens is concerned. 

    Back to Mr Cheo's question about MPs automatically becoming advisers. I said no, it is not automatic, unless they are able to help explain the Government's policy. I do not think his party would allow him to do that. Would it? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Chiam said that it is not because there are not enough vacancies in the PCF centre in Potong Pasir. But I understand that the PCF centre in Potong Pasir had to close down because Mr Chiam's Town Council raised the S&C fees. 

  hoiyung: He made it difficult for them to carry on. That is my understanding. Firstly, whether I am right or wrong, I think the records speak for themselves. Secondly, Mr Chiam wants to change all that because he thinks that the Opposition and the grassroots organisations can work together. Whereas we are saying that we are elected to govern and like any other democratically elected government, we are empowered to set up any agency to help promote and propagate its policies and explain them to the people. When Mr Chiam wants to change all that, he can, when he becomes the Government. 

  BG George Yong-Boon Yeo: Mr Speaker, Sir, unless Mr Chiam can be more specific, I am not quite sure what question I am answering to. 

  hoiyung: I think that is a hypothetical question and I would have to disallow that. Mr Chiam, would you like to proceed to your next question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the information which I gave just now of the circumstances and the categories of prisoners who, we understand, have to wear leg chains is supplied by our Mission in Bangkok. I have also ascertained from our Mission in Bangkok that the information and rules which I have described apply across the board and the Singaporean prisoners are not singled out for special treatment. If Mr Chiam has knowledge of any particular case where unfair treatment was accorded, and he will give me the specifics of the case, I assure him I will look into it. 

 allocation to grassroots leaders who are members of CCCs, RCs, CCMCs, YECs and WECs. This is in recognition of their services to the community. Grassroots leaders are appointed by the Government through the People's Association. They are not PAP appointees, as misconstrued by the Member for Hougang. To be eligible for this scheme, grassroots leaders must be serving members of their grassroots organisations with at least three years of continuous service. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has suggested extending this priority scheme to cover charitable and social organisations. The nature of the charitable and social work is very diverse. It ranges from the occasional weekend volunteer help to paid social work. Many Singaporeans are involved in charitable and social work of one kind or another. It is not feasible to extend the scheme to all of them. The number eligible would be too large. The contributions of volunteers working in charitable and social organisations will be recognised in other ways. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, are you making a speech? Could you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: What is your question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, are you asking a question? If you have no further questions, could you resume your seat? 

    Mr Chiam makes two points. First, he asks whether or not members of the Law Society - I would guess he means legal practitioners - will be appointed as Law Commissioners. Sir, as the Act provides, the appointment of Law Commissioners is made by the President. In the past, I think he will know that we have had, for example, members of the Law Faculty, eminent members, who have been appointed to the Law Commission. In other words, the Law Commission is not a closed-door affair. Even though we provide for the appointment of the AG, the SG and the Parliamentary Counsel, as and when there are members of the legal fraternity with expertise, they will be appointed. Prof. Tan Sook Yee provides an example. So I think we must leave it to the President in his wisdom to decide on who fits the bill to be appointed to the very important appointment of Law Revision Commissioner. 

    The other point which Mr Chiam makes is about cost which is in fact a point met by this Bill. With the loose-leaf system, there will be no need to replace booklets in their entirety and, therefore, this should reduce costs in the long run. 

  The Prime Minister (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Speaker, Sir, now, we ask, "What is the fuss all about?" Mr Chiam said that there was no impropriety, nothing illegal about the purchases of SM and DPM Lee. hoiyung: A Vice-Principal at a junior college was telling me that some of his junior college boys were asking why they should defend their country when they would never have a chance to own a house or a car. Our answer is: get through your junior college first, go to university and then prove yourself. If you can prove yourself, you would have the chance to own a house. And if you are amongst the top earners, and you are prepared to pay for a COE, you could also own a car. 

  hoiyung: May I respond to the Member, Mr Speaker, Sir? We heard from Mr Chiam the other day that when he was a young teacher, he applied for a house in the Singapore Teachers' Union's development. At that point of time, he already owned two flats and he applied to buy a third property. I think, normally, for such a cooperative development, I would 

 expect the builders to ask the person to declare whether or not he owns other properties. If they did not, I was surprised that Mr Chiam thought of applying in the first place. If that is his thinking, he should not have applied in the first place but, of course, he opted out. Since then, has Mr Chiam gone on to own more properties? I do not believe he only owns two properties. I do not know how many properties he has, but I am sure he owns more than one, surely. Can he confirm? One to live in. How many has he invested in? Sir, I give the floor to Mr Chiam. 

    I am glad that Mr Chiam owns a small flat and a small office space. He should buy more. 

    But the answer to Mr Chiam's question is, they can buy as many as they want. How many Ministers do we have? Let us say 20. 10 properties each. 20 times 10 is 200. How many do we have in Singapore? Would that raise the property prices? Is that the reason behind the frenzy? Leave us to worry about the social implications. If we mishandle this, he should be very happy at the coming election. But we are not going to mishandle this particular situation. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I had explained to the House during the Committee of Supply debate in March this year the various efforts to develop new and alternative sources of water to meet our future needs. Perhaps the Member for Hougang was absent at that session. 

    In the Philippines, the fact-finding commission appointed by the Government concluded that Ms Contemplacion has suffered injustice in Singapore. What is the truth? The truth is that she was accorded all rights available to any person charged in Singapore. Two lawyers were assigned by the Supreme Court Registrar to defend her initially for her trial in January 1993. When notice of appeal was given, another two lawyers were appointed to defend her. No legal rights were denied to her. Our Government also made available to the Commission of Inquiry in the Philippines all documents relevant to the case. This did not seem to have helped them in their deliberations. And yet the SDP, in the press statement of 23rd March 1995, suggested that a Commission should be set up by both countries to facilitate an exchange of views. Perhaps, Members of the SDP would like to explain what they meant by this. In addition, the SDP also called on our Government "to exercise greater political and diplomatic tact when it comes to making comments about our neighbours in the international community." This press statement was issued on 23rd March this year at a time when emotion was riding high. Here you will really question why the SDP issued this 

 statement at that time and asked for a commission to be set up by both countries to facilitate an exchange of views and facts. It also stated that the "SDP stands ready to assist in any way it can to help to resolve this position". 

    The second part of the motion is about the confidence in our judicial system. This is something we should express our unanimous support. On 10th April, the Straits Times published the report of the Philippine Commission. On the same day, the Singapore Democratic Party issued a statement, which was carried in the Straits Times, on 11th April, stating "Our nation and its system has come under close scrutiny. Indeed, it seems that Singapore has been put on trial. It is thus crucial that Singapore clears up any discrepancy found and question raised about this case." 

    The next day, the Workers' Party also issued a statement suggesting "Refer the Report of the Philippine Commission to the World Court, or to a tribunal of jurists from Commonwealth countries to investigate the allegations that there might have been a miscarriage of justice in the prosecution of Ms Flor Contemplacion." In other words, the two statements by the two Opposition parties have insinuations or they hold the view that there was some doubt about our judicial system and the way our Police conducted its investigation. Such statements by the two Opposition parties could only add fuel to fire, to further complicate and emotionalise the issue. Such statements, on the one hand, gave the Philippine media 

    At that time when the incident was making people very worried, the SDP and the Workers' Party issued such statements. What were their ulterior motives? Therefore, it is important that this House reaffirms the confidence in Singapore's criminal justice system so as to clarify the matter to the public. 

    First, Sir, I want to thank Mr Chiam for being pro-Singapore. I think he speaks well for the development of democracy and the growth of a responsible Opposition as represented by Mr Chiam. 

    Mr Chiam said that we should know and predict the reactions in the Philippines. But I can tell Mr Chiam that historians will testify, time and again, that it is always easy to be wise after the event, to say that we should do this, or we should do that, or we should not do this, or we should not do that. Even in our routine day-to-day life, we sometimes agonize, after the event, that we should have bought, or sold, a piece of property or bought or sold the shares in time. 

    Rather than criticise our own Government and officials, we should applaud them, defend them and rally around them. Instead, some Opposition parties, except Mr Chiam, cast doubts, signalling that we are divided internally at a critical time in our relationship. 

    Sir, as it is said, only in times of crisis can we see the real sign of patriotism and loyalty. From this storm, we are also able to see the true colours of some Members of the Opposition parties in Singapore. The SDP and the Workers' Party have made statements on this incident. But we note that what they were discussing were not the question of right or wrong, or the facts and evidence in the Flor Contemplacion case. The spearhead of SDP's criticism is directed at the People's Action Party. They alleged that the PAP had passed random remarks at other countries. The Workers' Party's statement gave me the impression that they were hinting that there was miscarriage of justice in our judicial system. The Workers' Party's statement also pointed out that our entire judicial system was on trial. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, as the Chinese saying goes: "Sima Zhao zhi xin, luren jie zhi ye (the villain's design is obvious)". Why did they not go by the facts of the case when making their statement, ie, whether or not Flor Contemplacion was given a fair trial, unjustly convicted and wrongly executed? What about the irrational behaviour of the people in the Philippines, such as the burning of the Singapore national flag and injuring the dignity of Singapore? Why was it that these two political parties were completely silent on such beserk behaviour? Were they helping Singapore or were they anti-Singapore? Do they have the interest of Singapore at heart, or are they merely trying to cash in on the opportunity to earn political capital? I think this is a big question mark in the minds of our people. The SDP and the Workers' Party should clarify. 

 prices and HDB chooses the best offer for coloured tiles, the best offer for better grilles and therefore, it puts all these things into calculation. HDB then calculates the subsidy to be given for each of these flats and puts up the listed price. I do not see what is the problem that Mr Low has in wanting to have details as to how much a toilet bowl costs. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, so if the argument from the heart is that the law will dilute family values and replace a filial relationship with a legal one, then the experiences of Israel and Taiwan will confirm this fear to be totally exaggerated and misplaced. There are, as Mr Chiam confirmed, very, very few cases of Israelis and Taiwanese being brought to court. So this Bill, if passed into law, is really non-intimidating. 

Lee Yiok Seng               Ling How Doong

Lee Yock Suan               Low Thia Khiang

Lim Chun Leng, Michael      Cheo Chai Chen

Lee Yiok Seng               Ling How Doong

Lee Yock Suan               Low Thia Khiang

Lim Chun Leng, Michael      Cheo Chai Chen

    As to the reservation by Mr Ling, I do not know which particular aspect of the Bill he does not support. But looking at the provisions, there is detention without trial, it is an offence also for carrying subversive documents, helping subversive groups, making strikes in essential services illegal, and so on. All these were part and parcel of the Bill that was passed way back in 1955 and they are already there and well entrenched. Of course, we can take them out and put them in some other law, but at this point in time, I do not think it is necessary to do so, so long as we still have this Act. When we decide to do away with detention without trial, then we can really look at all the other provisions of the Act. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, it appears to me you are asking more or less the same question. Unless you have something new, we will have to move on because we have a lot of questions today. 

  hoiyung: Of course, I do not agree because the Workers' Party, as I said, is free to organise rallies and meetings within stadiums or athletic centres. They can have a very big crowd. They can open it to the press. So how is that a denial of freedom of the press or freedom of information. The same requirement and the same considerations which I mentioned will also be applicable if an application was made by the PAP. 

    At the group level, Temasek Holdings and MND Holdings have been profitable in every year from 1988 to 1991. In the case of Singapore Technologies Holdings, it was profitable in 1988, 1989 and 1990 but suffered a loss of $91.1 million in 1991. The loss arose as a result of losses incurred by a subsidiary company, Singapore Technologies Ventures, and reasons for the loss were given in this House in response to a question from Mr Low last year. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, do you have questions? 

  Mr Speaker: No, you need not. The question that Mr Chiam asks is not directly related to the original question. 

  In Mandarin): In general, Mr Ling alleged that the Singapore Government has not been restrained enough in dealing with the matter. He wanted both Singapore and the Philippines to be mutually restrained in the matter. Reading between the lines, we can see that Mr Ling has some doubt over the judicial system of Singapore. 

  In Mandarin): I am very happy. At least Mr Low has said on behalf of the Workers' Party that they are all patriots. But I would like to ask him a few questions. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Low has patiently explained the view of his Party. I am quite happy about it. Finally, he says that he has no doubt about our judicial system. Since there is no doubt, then why should we get a third party to examine whether our system is all right or not? We got two American experts to go to the Philippines but their finding has also been rejected by the Philippines. When can we put a stop to all these? Each time you have an expert to say something, they will say that it is wrong and ridiculous. So there will be no end to all that. I feel that Mr Low should tell us, as a representative of the Workers' Party and a member of the Opposition, whether he has any doubt over our judicial system. If there is no doubt, then why should he suggest that our judicial system be examined by a third party? Is that a healthy way of doing things? Is it a sound way of doing things? Can he tell us where else in the world has the judicial system of a country been subjected to examination by a third party? 

    The SDP and Workers' Party sought to gain political mileage from the situation. At a time when our criminal justice system and its key institutions - the courts, police and prison - were under daily attack, the Opposition chose to make political hay. They fudged the crucial issue, which is the integrity of our criminal justice system, and issued statements that lent credibility to these attacks. Instead of defending our institutions, as the Government and Singaporeans did, they poured oil onto the fire. They had acted irresponsibly, compromising national interest for partisan political gain. 

    Sir, the SDP issued two press statements - the first one on 23rd March 1995, published in the local media on 24th March, and the second on 11th April 1995. The Workers' Party issued one press statement dated 11th April 1995. Sir, the SDP and Workers' Party owe Singaporeans an explanation for these statements. Far from being helpful, these statements have harmed Singapore's cause. Let me tell you why. 

    First, let us take the SDP's first statement (issued by Dr Chee Soon Juan as Secretary General on 23rd March 1995). Sir, by that time, anti-Singapore feelings in Manila were at a peak. There were hysterical demonstrations; tabloids were screaming anti-Singapore sentiments; the press had called for a break in ties. Did the SDP and Dr Chee have anything critical to say about any of these events? No! Instead, they criticised Singapore. In the statement, Dr Chee had said in paragraph 2, and I quote: 

    `The two very different sets of reactions in the two countries to the same set of circumstances attest to the fact that perception more than knowledge of facts is the cause of the dispute. As such, more diplomatic light than political heat should be generated. Perhaps, a commission should be set up by both countries to facilitate an exchange of views and facts. The SDP stands ready to assist in any way it can to help resolve this problem.' 

This letter was sent after the Gancayco Commission had submitted its report to President Ramos, and its fantastic findings had been widely publicised in the Philippine and Singapore press. Yet, the SDP's letter to President Ramos expressed not the slightest doubt, reservation or criticism of the Gancayco Commission or its report. Sir, this omission surely speaks for itself. 

    Let me ask Mr Ling whether he truly believes that Flor Contemplacion suffered injustice in Singapore. Does he accept the Gancayco Report as a true and credible account of what took place during the whole Flor Contemplacion trial, imprisonment and execution? Without first debunking the report's false allegations, as the Government had done, the SDP suggested that a third party be sought to sort out the dispute, so that discrepancies can be cleared up. Sir, would not such a proposal lend credibility and verisimilitude to the Commission's wild accusations? I ask Mr Ling to tell us his honest opinion. 

    Mr Ling also told President Ramos: 

    `We have also informed Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong that the SDP is willing to assist in any way it can to resolve this matter.' 

 In other words, the SDP was offering its good offices to mediate between the parties and reconcile the two aggrieved parties, the Singapore Government and the Philippine government. The SDP would, of course, take a neutral stand between the integrity of Singapore's criminal justice system and those who were vociferously attacking it. 

    Sir, the statement also said that the entire affair had put Singapore's reputation as an international city at stake. Really? How can a single incident like this, in which our justice system has been fully vindicated, unravel all the achievements that Singapore has been publicly acclaimed for? The SDP says Singapore has been put on trial. By whom? Even the Asian Wall Street Journal and the Far Eastern Economic Review, neither of which are well-known admirers of the Singapore Government, published editorials and opinion pieces expressing full confidence that Contemplacion had received due process and justice in Singapore courts. The Asian Wall Street Journal called the work of the Gancayco Commission a "farce", a "judicial circus", a "setback even for those who truly doubt Mrs Contemplacion's guilt." 

    Sir, I do not believe that hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I clarify because the Parliamentary Secretary referred to the Workers' Party? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Low, I would like to point out that under the Standing Orders, you can only speak once on the question. 

  hoiyung: Sir, first, I am glad to hear that Mr Low has said openly in this House that the Workers' Party does not believe in the Gancayco report. Their statement came out after the Gancayco Commission's findings were made public. 

  hoiyung: There was no criticism, no reservation, nothing. The implication must be that those who read the press statement would draw the conclusion that from the Gancayco report and its wild allegations, the Workers' Party is saying that Singapore's criminal justice system - entrenched, tested, a transparent one - has been put on trial. I think this is a very serious thing to say. And when you say, "let's refer to a third party", you are saying, "let us refer the matter, including the Gancayco report, to a third party." When you do that, are you not saying that, "Well, the Gancayco report can stand scrutiny." 

  hoiyung: Let me just say this very briefly. First, his paragraph 2, the opening statement, says that the Party wishes to stress that Singapore's machinery for justice is on trial as a result of the report of the Commission. I think that is a very telling statement because if you look at the Gancayco report, I would like Mr Low to point to the paragraphs in the report where he feels that those paragraphs or assertions stand scrutiny so as to put our tested criminal justice system on trial. He said just now that he does not believe in the Gancayco report. Then why make this statement? Why not, like what the Government has done, look at it very carefully and answer, "Look, I do not 

 believe in points A to Z and this is why we do not believe in it." And stop at that, rather than submit it openly to a third party and have everybody look at it. I think that is not the proper approach. I would assume that Mr Low speaks for the Workers' Party. 

    The other point, of course, is that now Mr Low says that he believes that the Singapore criminal justice system can stand scrutiny and he supports it. May I ask him whether the Workers' Party is prepared to put up a press statement on this point, since now there is no need to submit or stress anything and they believe that the criminal justice system in Singapore is one that the Workers' Party has full confidence in. 

  The Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Foreign Affairs (Encik Yatiman Yusof): I just want to ask Mr Low to make a very clear stand on this issue. He had earlier applauded when Singapore agreed to have this case on the forensic finding to be taken up by an international arbiter. Our basis for agreeing to an international arbitration on a forensic matter is because forensic is a science by itself. But when he said that our agreement of allowing the independent forensic examination to be done as our willingness to have the judiciary to be examined internationally, I think he is mixing oil with water. Our judicial system has been proven to be transparent, factual, able, 

 and we have stood the test of time. The fact that we agreed and decided to sever our Appeal Court from the Privy Council in London is a clear indication that we are confident of ourselves. But the Workers' Party Member of this House insists that because we have agreed on a forensic matter, we therefore should agree to have an international arbitration to decide on the facts and law on the Flor Contemplacion case. If that is so, what would be the Workers' Party's stand if supporters for the late Van Damme insist that we should take this matter to the international court? And there are so many other cases in which the Singapore court had, based on facts, found a person guilty. Will the Workers' Party then insist that every such case should be referred to international arbitration? This is the question which the Workers' Party must answer, as a matter of principle. 

  hoiyung: Order. Can I urge Members that if there is some point in Mr Ling's speech that they do not understand, they can rise on a point of clarification. They can also rise during the course of his speech. 

  Assoc. Prof. Ho Peng Kee: Sir, Mr Ling now comes to this House, in a very sweet speech, to try to convince the House that the SDP has done nothing to weaken Singapore during the time when we were in crisis, when it mattered the most. The SDP issued two statements: The first statement said that the Government "chided, belittled, poked fun at other 

    I would like to ask him whether, taken in totality, these actions actually weaken Singapore's position. The other point is that, drawing reference to the statement of the SDP, he says that the SDP wants to be a neutral party. But he must not forget he is in a Singapore political party. He may be in the Opposition. But in his attempt to remain even-handed, has he not forgotten that truth is on our side, fact is on our side, and on the other side there are a lot of wild allegations, fiction? Is it not? Even if you wanted to remain neutral, for example, in his letter to President Ramos, the only reference to the fact-finding Commission was that, "I understand this fact-finding Commission has found the late Mrs Contemplacion suffered injustice in Singapore." That is the only reference. He does not have to attack the Commission. But he could have mentioned the allegations that were made. What sort of impression would be gleaned by the people who read the press report about such a letter coming from a Singapore party written to a foreign government at a time when we were in crisis, not now in this House while things have settled down, because, as he has said himself, emotions were running high? What impression did the SDP give? Did it harm or strengthen our case by what it did? 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr Wong Kan Seng): I have just heard Mr Ling say that he found the Gancayco Commission "absurd, bizarre", etc. If he had said so in his press statements, I have got two press statements here, including this letter to Mr Ramos, [Copies of statements handed to hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I mentioned earlier, when we wrote the letter to President Ramos, we were trying to ask him to hold his horse in order to refer it to a third party. I think it is highly improper and inappropriate for us to criticise all these things as it would then 

  Assoc. Prof. Ho Peng Kee: Sir, it is not just the omission. Mr Ling not argues that they had omitted certain things and therefore that has made the negotiation position strong, even though I think that we can doubt. Because when you negotiate, you do not just come blank. If you have certain strong points, you want to also show them. In other words, if you do not say anything, the impression may be given that you fully support the Gancayco report. And in fact that impression was probably given because the only reference in his letter to the report was the fact that the Commission had found that she had suffered injustice. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Speaker, Sir, since Mr Ling did not want to read this letter, maybe he did not draft the letter himself. 

  hoiyung: He knows the contents but he did not write it himself. Fair enough. And he said that it is not nice to tell President Ramos that he disagreed and so on. But let me just quote one line here - this is the letter signed by Mr Ling to President Ramos. Paragraph 2 says: 

Nowhere in this paragraph, following the sentence about Mrs Contemplacion having suffered injustice, has he repudiated this finding. In other words, even in a letter like this, supposedly to be nice to Mr Ramos, he did not say he did not believe that she suffered injustice. I think he should say so. Because if it is his position that the findings are absurd, bizarre, he can put it in a nice way to President Ramos that he did not believe this report and he did not like it. Even if he does not want to say so to President Ramos, why did he not say this in the press statement that his Secretary-General issued in Singapore, and I suppose he met the press. None of the press reports that I have here repudiated the Gancayco Commission report. None of it carries the SDP's position on the report that it is absurd and bizarre. Why did he not say so? 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang: Yes. I am not clear as to what Mr Ling is trying to say. Therefore, I am seeking clarification, Sir. We know that Mr Ling is the unofficial Leader of the Opposition. He is a well known leader. He is a well known lawyer. And he was writing a letter to a well known leader of the world, President Ramos. By not saying anything to uphold our judiciarl system, he is implying that there is something wrong with it. How can he come back to the House now and tell us that is not the case? He said, "Yes, it is bizarre." But it was not stated in the letter. How does he explain? How does he reconcile the two statements? The fact that President Ramos saw him and his delegation meant that he took him very seriously. So I think Mr Ling, being the unofficial Leader of the Opposition, should explain in the House how he reconciles the two statements? And if he thinks that there is nothing wrong with our judicial system, please re-issue a press statement. 

  hoiyung: Sir, maybe Mr Ling could just be honest enough and admit that he did not write the letter. He did not draft and issue the statement and all these were done by his Secretary-General who had put him on the spot. Because he said, "We took the Gancayco Commission at face value", which means there is something to be believed. Then he said, "We give President Ramos the benefit of the doubt", which means there must be some truth. And then on the other hand, he says, "It is all absurd and bizarre." And he upholds the institution of Singapore, that it is fair, and so on. Which version does he want to believe? Which version is his true position? Which is his Secretary-General's position? Maybe he should be honest enough to tell us that the letter and the statement were actually not his. He just signed as the leader of the Party. Somebody else had drafted it. Say so. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, based on what Mr Ling said just now in his letter to President Ramos, is he saying that the SDP and he are prepared to sacrifice principles, facts and instead resort to political statements to placate a third party outside the country? And is his party prepared to take the same step again, in future cases, where you just ignore the facts, principles and play politics? 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling just said that he knows the report is bizarre, far-fetched, and he said, "How can I tell all these to President Ramos in my letter?" He knows what are the facts. He chose not to put them in. Now could he tell me what is wrong with getting the bizarre and strange facts to President Ramos if he believes in it? 

  The Senior Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Defence and the Minister for National Development (Mr Matthias Yao Chih): Sir, may I ask Mr Ling one question? He said that he did not put all these adjectives in the letter because it was at the height of the Philippine elections and so on. Now that the situation is cooling down and we are getting things back on an even keel, will he now write another letter to President Ramos stating SDP's true stand on the Gancayco Commission report? 

 that the Opposition in Singapore have been easily misled and this is clear from the statements that they have issued in the press and the correspondence by both the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) and the Workers' Party. 

    Mr Speaker, one of the reasons why this problem has led to such tension is that some opposition parties in the Philippines had relied on the tactic of spreading malicious stories. They misrepresented the facts, twisted the stories and created all sorts of lies, which we have seen in the reports that reached Singapore, excerpts from the newspaper reports there. And when we see these lies and falsehood, Mr Speaker, I personally am not surprised that certain Opposition leaders in Singapore like the SDP Secretary-General, Chee Soon Juan, would join the fray, because he himself had been accused of being a cheat and a liar. He never denied that and has never dared to bring this matter to the court. So when there were cheating and lying in the Philippines on the issue of the hanging of Flor Contemplacion, I remember the English proverb that says "birds of the same feather flock together". So even though there was one here and many more perhaps in the Philippines during the crisis, I am not surprised that some of those in the Opposition here had responded and had sought to participate in lying and in the misrepresentation of facts. 

    Among the suggestions they made was that Singapore leaders should not be honest when expressing their views to the world, to the Philippine leaders, to the Australians, etc. This is the suggestion that the Opposition made as we faced this crisis, the SDP opinion, signed by Chee Soon Juan. In other words, he wanted Singapore leaders not to speak candidly, not to speak the truth. Is he teaching the leaders of Singapore to lie? Is that the value he is promoting, Mr Speaker? And if we believed him and took his advice, what kind of image would Singapore leaders have, when they cannot be honest, when they cannot speak frankly about something when their hosts want them to do so? 

    I remember one issue raised by the Senior Minister, that became the subject of SDP's criticism, regarding discipline in the Philippines and the growth of democracy in the country and their social development efforts. If we look at what has happened to the debate on Flor Contemplacion in the Philippines, it is clear that the points made by the Senior Minister, on discipline and democracy, probably made no impression on them. 

    Mr Speaker, I would like to touch on the points made by the Gancayco Commission. We have heard earlier the unofficial Leader of the Opposition saying that the report was absurd and bizarre and so on. Yesterday, we heard a leader of the Opposition, who today seems to have become the opposition to the Opposition, hoiyung: Order. I suspend the Sitting and will take the Chair again at 3.20 pm. 

    The Flor Contemplacion incident has clearly been exploited by the SDP and the Workers' Party to serve their own selfish political agendas. The two parties chose to release what I would call misinformation to feed the hysteria and frenzy of the imaginative Philippine and foreign press. Even though there was no substance to their charges, the timing of their press release, I think, was laced with malice and mischief. 

    From what I have heard earlier on, it appears that both the representatives of the Workers' Party and the SDP in this House today, hoiyungasked me to 

    But instead today, Dr Chee and I have the luxury of debating the merits of an alternative government. This is the triumph of the PAP Government versus the rhetoric of the SDP. And this is the reason why I equate the PAP with modern Singapore. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Flor Contemplacion case, unfortunate as it was, did have some salutary impact. First, it exposed the kind of leaders within the SDP and the Workers' Party. These people first of all are confused with the released press statements without knowing the implications of their remarks. And I think that if elected, they would deliver platitudes to 

    Now that the unofficial Leader of the Opposition has made his position clear, I think it is about time that the SDP, together with Dr Chee, made a final press statement. They should have the honesty and courage to make a final press statement, retracting what they said earlier and admitting that they have made a terrible political judgment. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, it troubles me to think that the Opposition Members were so silent in initiating debate in Parliament, while the SDP and the Workers' Party were busy at work issuing statements capitalising on the case as it unfolded in the days of April before the Philippine Senatorial election, through their two Secretary-Generals, Dr Chee and Mr Jeyaretnam. 

    The SDP Chairman took upon himself the onerous duty of writing to the President of the Philippines in his capacity as unofficial Leader of the Opposition and Chairman of the SDP. Sadly, it is to the indefatigable Dr Soin, woman affairs champion on this side of the House on the Backbench, and veteran unionist, Mr John de Payva, both Nominated MPs, that Parliament has to lean in order for the issues to be brought forth for debate. 

    Why has the unofficial Leader of the Opposition and Chairman of the SDP, so moved by the gravity of the Flor Contemplacion case on 10th April to write to the President of the Philippines, not brought the matter to Parliament for debate himself? Surely the refusal of the Government to stay the execution of Flor Contemplacion and the confidence in our criminal justice system are grave issues for the Opposition. 

    The Workers' Party even suggested bringing the matter to the World Court. Why were the Opposition Members so silent at that time in initiating this debate on the issue in the highest institution in the land, when they and their parties' executive committee through their Secretary-Generals were issuing so many statements and letters to the press almost every other day at one stage? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I find the comments made by the Chairman of the SDP a little bit too late. 

    Were they concerned with a rational examination into the issues at hand in the case, as they purport to make out, or were they only trying to make capital out of it, when the going was thought to be good? Surely, if the Singapore "machinery for justice is on trial", as alleged by the Workers' Party, the matter calls for urgent debate. And they were silent when their voice was to be heard most urgently. What they did not do spoke volumes. 

    The SDP issued a press statement on 23rd March 1995 while the going was hot, signed by their ever-ready Secretary-General, where it volunteered itself as the white knight, "ready to assist in any way it can to help resolve this problem." I wonder what can they do. Its response was to call on the Singapore Government to exercise greater political and diplomatic tact when it comes to making comments about our neighbours in the international community. And it went on for more than half a page with a litany of charges against the PAP leaders for the sins of commission in comments made at various times as reported in the press. 

    It is rather sad that the SDP, proclaiming itself ready to assist and urging restraint and diplomacy by both governments, should focus more than half of this statement in attacking our Government leaders for comments on some of the problems in the other countries, which have often been matters reported by the media on various occasions. 

    The press statement by the SDP reveals that they are really more interested in making capital out of the situation. When our flag was being burned, the SDP was 

 more interested in trying to embarrass our own leaders for its own selfish political gain. Mr Chiam, the SDP Member for Potong Pasir, said yesterday that he was pro-Singapore. Unfortunately, his party did not show itself to be. This really shows the low tackle of the SDP. Like the pretentious white knight, it went hook, line and sinker, because it could not resist from capitalising on the situation by embarrassing our Government with tenuous examples pasted together by the sleight of hand. 

    Dr Chee and the SDP were quick to pontificate out in the press statement that "two very different sets of reaction in the two countries to the same set of circumstances attest to the fact that perception, more than knowledge of facts, is the cause of the dispute." So the SDP thinks that more diplomatic light than political heat should be generated. The President of the Philippines responded to him by switching off many of the political lights. At the end of the day, I hope the SDP realises whether it was the diplomatic light or the political heat that was the driving factor. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, there are almost 200 nations in the world. If everytime anything has to be resolved in the international community, then by the count of the SDP there must be 200 perceptions to consider. This was the point raised in the statement to the press which they made on 23rd March. How can the community of nations move forward to do anything? Diplomats will always be going around in circles from morning till night and nothing would have been done. Fortunately, diplomats have already found the solution long before the SDP urges more diplomatic light, and that is the rule of law among nations, and the respect for the judicial system of the respective country where the crime is committed. This is a fundamental tenet in international relations among nations, and Mr Low should know about this. 

    The SDP also charges that the Singapore Government failed in its diplomatic tact when our leaders make comments about other countries. How this relates to the Flor Contemplacion 

 case beats me. Presumably, the SDP is saying that the Philippine people are hurt by some of these comments and the anger in some quarters over the Flor Contemplacion case reveals the hurt by these comments. 

    First, I would like to debunk this specifically. The Senior Minister was invited to speak frankly at the Philippines Business Conference in 1992, and with his penchant for sharp analysis and language, he made some points on democracy and development and the formula it should take. Mr Lee gave it frankly and fearlessly, straight from the shoulders, a style anyone having an audience with him must be familiar with, even over lunch. Contrary to what the SDP thinks, most Philippine papers welcome Senior Minister's remarks. Examples have been given by my colleague, Mr Koo, a moment ago. In ASEAN conferences with some Philippine parliamentarians, I have also heard of some of their admiration for Senior Minister's frank and direct remarks. They told me he said what they cannot say. 

    The SDP should not be too quick to pinpoint that the Flor Contemplacion outcry was directly related to the offence of people by comments made by our leaders. It is too simplistic a connection, but of course, like all things in politics, there is always reason when the SDP wants to make this imputation. Firstly, the SDP really believes this connection to be true, which reveals its simplistic and infantile perception of political problems in the Philippines and in international relations. Secondly, the SDP is purely capitalising on the situation by posing to volunteer help to resolve the dispute, but really wanting to embarrass our Government leaders, and attempting to make political capital out of it. The unpardonable sin for the SDP was that it was too quick to slam our Government in chorus with people on the street in some foreign country, even as Singapore lives and property were in danger. I must commend Mr Chiam, the Member for 

    I will now address the issue of the "new evidence" referred to by President Ramos in his letter of 11th March 1995, the "new evidence" brought up very dramatically by another Filipino called Virginia Custodio Parumog to the notice of the Tanglin Police Station at 4.04 am on 17th March 1995, just a few hours before Flor Contemplacion's execution, and the findings of the Gancayco Commission. At the end of this speech, Members will know how much painstaking efforts had been made by the various Government agencies in investigating every complaint and allegation spouted forth by the Filipinos. It will also show how unjust the Opposition parties - the SDP and Worker's Party - despite what they have just said this afternoon, have been in criticising the Government's handling of the case, and how they have tried to undermine the integrity of our criminal justice system - our Courts, our 

Beng Kian Lam, Arthur    Low Thia Khiang

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I proceed to answer the question, may I urge the Member for Hougang to familiarise himself with parliamentary procedures concerning Questions for Oral Answers. His untimely interjection yesterday was unnecessary and a mark of impatience. 

    The Member for Hougang must also know that under our laws, the Police conduct their own independent investigation of all unnatural deaths in Singapore and present their findings to 

 the State Coroner. I would also like to say that the unit that Private Khor was attached to did not have any complaint or incidence of excessive punishments being meted out to national servicemen. So it is therefore premature for Mr Low to speculate on the cause of the suicide of Private Khor and to cast aspersions on the attitudes of senior SAF officers. By doing so, he may be causing unnecessary alarm among national servicemen and their parents. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, no speeches. Ask your supplementary question. 

    Just now, the Member for Hougang referred to a Chinese saying: "Even an upright magistrate will find it difficult to judge on a family dispute". If Prof. Walter Woon has the benefit of dealing with constituency affairs, he will be able to understand the significance and meaning of this saying and the profound philosophy behind it. During our "meet-the-people sessions", we often come across various kinds of family disputes and problems - disputes between mother-in-law and daughter-in-law, husband and wife, father and son, and among siblings. They would come to their Members of Parliament to pour out their grievances and want us to settle the disputes for them. Very often, it would appear as though each party has its own reasons, and both sides would insist that they are in the right. So, who is the wiser? From my experience, I would say it is extremely difficult for such family disputes and problems to be resolved through legal means. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Cheo, are you making a speech? 

  hoiyung: I agree with Mr Chiam that it is illegal to sublet or sell the 

    On the second question, which is also Mr Chiam's first question, on the self-financing principle of SISIR, I must say that SISIR's work is still very much subsidised 

 in respect of quality and quality-promotion. The $10 million annual grant which SISIR gets from the Government is spent in this area. But for industrial research, which is meant for commercial application, the fact that SISIR has all this equipment actually lowers the cost to the individual company. So this is, in fact, a great help to the small and medium-sized enterprises in Singapore. If they have to purchase expensive equipment, then I think the cost for entering into new private development would be exorbitant, if not prohibitive. I think the fears expressed about the high costs of SISIR may be unfounded. But should companies find that they require additional financial assistance, apart from the lowering of cost by using SISIR's schemes, then they can apply for other forms of assistance. There are many schemes which are administered by the Economic Development Board. And in Mr Chiam's case, it is up to his contractors to see whether the particular project would have fallen under any of these schemes. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, the debate is over. What is it that you want to raise? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thank Mr Chiam for supporting the Bill. I notice, as I was making the speech, that he was furiously writing down many things that I have mentioned and he has brought them up for discussion. I welcome that. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this tax on utility bills goes to the Government. If Mr Chiam were to refer back to the time when the tax was first implemented, the tax is meant to encourage conservation, since utilities are the biggest users of fuel oil. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, this is not a debate. Could you ask your question? We have to proceed as we have other Questions. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I suggest that if you want to pursue this point further, you raise it in the coming Committee of Supply and you can have a debate on it. Do you have any new questions to ask? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do you have any questions? 

  Mr Choo Wee Khiang: Sir, I am quite amazed by what Prof. Woon is trying to propose because I think the amendment seeks to protect the public, and it appears to me that the Member is trying to protect the nudists. In our Asian society, how many of us have the habit, like what Mr Cheo said, of walking in our sleep without clothes on and, like what Prof. Woon said, accidentally walk around in private homes without any clothes on? How many of us do that? And I think if these people who appear nude and walk around in their own apartment and it is within sight, it will give rise to public embarrassment. If the public complains, the police will take the necessary action to investigate and find out more about it before the police and the AG's Chambers decide whether to prosecute them. I am sure the Senior Parliamentary Secretary can confirm it. So I do not think Prof. Woon should be too 

    Mr Chiam asked when will the first lot be built and where it will be put up. We plan to announce the marketing of the first lots of units some time in the middle of the year, in May or June. Pidemco has completed the design and is going through the various processes of getting Government approval to sell the units. So we are confident that the first lot of units can be marketed around May or June. 

    Mr Chiam also asked about the tenure of the flats. This will be for 99-year lease, just like any other sale of sites by the Government. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, can I just remind you that you should seek clarification on Dr John Chen's speech and not to add any new material? 

Chiam See Tong                Toh Keng Kiat

Low Thia Khiang               Cheo Chai Chen

  Mr Speaker: I wish to inform hon. Members that I have today received a complaint dated 27th August 1996 from the Minister for Health, BG George Yeo, complaining against four representors from the Singapore Democratic Party, namely, Dr Chee Soon Juan, Mr Wong Hong Toy, Mr Kwan Yue Keng and Mr S. Kunalen, for breach of parliamentary privilege in respect of their written and oral representations before the Select Committee on the Verification of Health Care Subsidy of Government Polyclinics and Public Hospitals. 

 compensation, which is the value of the property as of 1st January 1995. Beyond that, of course, the ex-gratia payment will take some time to compute. Ex-gratia payment is the difference between the value as of 1st January 1995 and 4th March 1996. Going back to Mr Chiam's point, if the owner wants to remain on the premises after being paid full compensation at vacant possession rate, he pays market rental as assessed by the Chief Valuer. And, Sir, in fact, this is the practice. A property owner who sells his property and wishes to remain on the property after the sale will make an arrangement with his buyer. If he wants to remain on the premises, and the buyer allows him to do it, he will pay market rental, not nominal rental. 

  Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: On Mr Chiam's question, I think there is an existing provision for tax relief on installation of highly efficient water recycling processes. If not, it would certainly be something we would seriously consider. 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I seek a clarification from the Member for Nee Soon Central? At one point, he said that the amendment to the GRC scheme was designed to consolidate and prolong 

    My second question, Sir, is this. Mr Cheo also mentioned that he regretted the existence of the GRC scheme in Singapore. This is a statement which I regret, because the GRC was designed specifically, aside from the provision of town councils, to ensure that there would always be adequate, or at least a minimal, representation of minority communities in Singapore - Indians, Malays and Eurasians. Can I ask him to clarify whether he is against ensuring that there will always be minority Members of Parliament in this House? 

  hoiyung: Sir, can I come back to the main issue which I raised for clarification by the Member? It is in regard to his statement that he regrets that this Parliament created the GRC scheme in Singapore to ensure minority representation. Although the Member says that he is not completely against the GRC scheme, I wonder how appointing minority MPs in this House is a better system. I would like to ask the Member whether he can recall in the last election or in previous elections, did the SDP put up minority candidates to stand in single member constituencies. Because he said that it is better to continue to compete in single member constituencies. Mr Cheo is from the SDP. Can I ask him whether his party has done so and what was the experience? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I remember that in the last election, there were some GRC constituencies contested by the SDP and even the Workers' Party. 

  hoiyung: I did not make that statement. I asked Mr Cheo because he regretted the idea of the GRC scheme. I have nothing to clarify. I am seeking clarification from the Member, Sir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, he has learnt to put words into my mouth. It is something that I completely did not say. I only stand here to defend the GRC scheme. I regret that the SDP MP, Mr Cheo, has said that he regretted the GRC scheme although this is one way to 

    Mr Cheo thinks that this is not true. But let me share with Members some of my ground experiences to illustrate my point. 

    Sir, earlier Mr Cheo said that the proposed changes are the PAP's election ploy to entrench its power and that they will benefit the PAP and handicap the opposition. I say the changes are not a ploy. For the reasons I have explained earlier, they are for the long term good of Singapore. The law and the proposed changes are double-edged swords. I agree with the Prime Minister that they are neutral. That opposition parties are at a disadvantage is no fault of the PAP. Opposition parties feel threatened because they are weak. If their candidates are strong, they would have a chance to win a GRC and therefore the multiple seats that go with it. In fact, it was clear from the last General Election that strong Opposition candidates generally obtained a higher percentage of votes. This also shows that the electorate is now more discerning. Therefore, the Opposition should not blame their poor showing on the changes to the laws. 

  The Minister for Community Development and Minister-in-charge of Muslim Affairs (Mr Abdullah Tarmugi): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to confine my speech to clause 14 of the Amendment Bill which seeks to raise the maximum number of MPs in a GRC to six. Like Mr Maidin, Sir, I too regret that Mr Cheo regrets the formation of GRCs. Either he is naive or he does not really fully appreciate the reasons for the formation of GRCs. 

  Mr Speaker: You want to give way, Mr Ling? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Mr Ling has mistaken my point. My point is that with a larger GRC, you can then have one satellite town under one GRC. And if that is the case, then all the MPs in that town will be under the same political party. But this is not true now with Gombak and Hong Kah North. So I am saying, because of that, I find community bonding more difficult because the residents across the street interact with my residents also. They go to the same neighbourhood centre. So by increasing the number to six, I believe this is one advantage and it will help us in furthering the goal of community bonding. 

  hoiyung: Can I seek a point of clarification from Mr Ling? 

 If I remember correctly, the SDP's stand on the Non-Constituency MP is that it is against the NCMP scheme and it has reasons for objecting. So for the same reason, you are prepared to compromise and allow for minority representation. Am I right? You are against the Non-Constituency MP. Now, for the same reason, you are prepared to allow the --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, can I ask the Chairman of the SDP why we should participate in a single-seat constituency and come in as an NCMP. It seems that this effort to ensure minority representation has already been built in his mind. Does he have in his mind that the minority candidates will lose the election? Why can we not compete and win? Why must we come in as NCMPs? You already have preconceived ideas. 

  hoiyung: Just now, Mr Ling said that Nee Soon South is under Sembawang GRC. 

  hoiyung: I am not saying independent, not necessarily independent. I myself have no political ambitions. I have said so before. So Mr Low need not fear this. 

    (In Mandarin): At the same time, Mr Low has also said that the PAP is a "political bully". What does he mean by a "political bully"? Are we corrupted? Or have we received money from outside sources? As Prof. Woon had said, this GRC system cuts both ways. If the opposition party, particularly the Workers' Party, one day wants to be the ruling party, then I think it should study from what hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, there are two groups of amendments to the Constitution. The first group refers to changes relating to the Elected President's power, the second to our proposal to expand the GRCs from a maximum of four to six. On the first group of changes to the Constitution, I take it that the House supports the changes unanimously. There were no criticisms and no clarifications required of me, so I would not have to go into that particular category of changes. 

    Let me deal first with the first group of comments. It is not correct to say that by changing the system, we are depriving the voters of a basic right to vote for the candidate they want. Mr Ling may not be aware that most European countries have proportional representation in Parliament. They run a system where the parties field a slate of candidates and parties contest on the basis of a slate of candidates. The voters have no right to choose who they want to be in Parliament. The people who are returned to Parliament will be decided by the number of votes received by each party and their position on the party list as the name of the candidates at the top will be the first to be returned. So voters do not have the right to choose a particular candidate they want. In New Zealand, they have a mixed system where some candidates are returned on a single-member constituency basis and others on a proportional basis. Likewise, for Japan. 

    Mr Chiam made a point that we could actually do all this without expanding the GRC from four to six. The answer is yes, we can actually do so. We can actually have a GRC of four combining with two singles to form six, for the CDCs and also for the town councils. But what happens if, as in the case of Toa Payoh, a single member constituency belongs to the opposition? You cannot group it under Toa Payoh even though it is perhaps ideal for Toa Payoh to have a larger town council to look after its interests. 

    Mr Chiam talks about the PAP bringing in new candidates with strong people in charge in the team. The answer is yes. I think it helps the new candidates that we will bring in. Again, is this for the benefit of the PAP or for the country? Do we bring in new candidates for our own purpose? Or is it to prepare for succession in government, succession in Parliament, good, honest and able people coming into Parliament so that in time to come, they will gain the necessary experience to take over the governance of Singapore? 

    Yes, the coat-tail effect of the Ministers helps in bringing in these new candidates for the PAP. But I am sure Mr Chiam will not deny that he also has some coat-tail effect. And perhaps hoiyung: A clarification, Sir. May I confirm with the Prime Minister, as he mentioned just now, this amendment to enlarge the size of GRCs will benefit the PAP? 

  The Prime Minister: Yes. As I said just now, I think for the coming election, by enlarging the size of the GRCs, because we have a much stronger team than the Workers' Party, it will benefit the PAP. But it does not mean that the scheme is not neutral. 

     Cheo Chai Chen

     Chiam See Tong

     Ling How Doong

     Low Thia Khiang

     Cheo Chai Chen

     Chiam See Tong

     Ling How Doong

     Low Thia Khiang

    For the opposition, the problems will remain because the issue is for them to find honest people to meet the challenges. If they cannot find honest people, then I think they are to blame. Mr Chiam is not here. He cannot find honest people to join him and therefore he is left in a dilemma. He was turfed out of the Central Executive Committee of SDP, because he did not choose the right person. Sir, the crucial issue is that we need to find honest people to participate in the elections and be voted in to help in the nation-building process. 

    For both Mr Cheo's and Mr Low's question on the polling agent and counting agent, they might not have fully understood the process. No doubt, we say here that there will only be one polling agent per group of GRC candidates. It means that at any one time we can have one polling agent there. If that polling agent wants to take his meal, another polling agent can go there and take his place. So there will still be one polling agent. But the current law provides that if you have a GRC of four, then a GRC candidate can send in one person and the other three can also send in three other polling agents into the same polling station. So in that polling station, you can have four polling agents. This is not necessary. All you need is only one polling agent at a time. So there is no need to worry. You can still find enough place for your polling agents if they want to help, but only one can be present at that polling centre or station at a time. 

    On carton boxes, certainly they must be secure enough. They must be designed such that there will be no hanky-panky, as Mr Low suggests. As the Member knows, we have conducted elections for more than nine occasions since 1959, and nobody has alleged any hanky-panky business in the counting or voting process. So the Members can be assured that the carton boxes will certainly be secure. 

  hoiyung: Again, Mr Low did not probably quite understand this. When 

    First, Mr Chiam concludes, from the figures that I have given, that there must be a great deal of poor people using these 

    On Mr Chiam's point, maybe he is right that gambling is one of the causes. But having spoken to the Director of CID, it is not the only cause. There is a wide variety of reasons why people may resort to illegal moneylenders. He said that men gamble and wives desert. There are also women who gamble and cause family savings to go away. I am not sure it is so simplistic that if we did away with gambling, if it can be done away with at all, we will not have illegal moneylenders. I think the problem will be with us for some time and it is incumbent upon us to craft legislative and enforcement measures to contain the problem. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not quite understand Mr Chiam's question. If he is asking a question on the review of the criteria for permanent residents, may I suggest that he take it up with the Minister for Home Affairs. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not understand the thrust of Mr Chiam's question. This is a straightforward landlord-tenant relationship. The occupants were given short-term leases on a month-to-month tenancy previously, precisely because the premises might be needed again and the tenants knew about this. In fact, more than ample notice had been given. This is a case of a very sympathetic landlord who has gone out of his way to help, firstly, by giving a very long period of notice, more than that required in the contract, and secondly, I understand that, as far as Singaporeans are concerned, the UDMC even offered alternative accommodation which they are not obliged to do. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you ask your supplementary question? You are making a speech. What is your question? 

    At this juncture, Mr Speaker, Sir, I find it hard to ignore the statement made by Mr Chiam in yesterday's Straits Times that NMPs will give rise to the new classification of MPs being labelled as "third class" MPs. The PAP, as the governing party through the will and choice of the majority, is undisputably not to be deemed as second class MPs. That in order will leave the Opposition to fill in the gap. Is the unofficial Leader of the Opposition declaring that Opposition MPs are second class MPs? I am utterly positive that it is not in his interest to have the Opposition being seen as second class. If that is so, it will not be wise then to label others what he himself is struggling hard to avoid. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you had your say already. 

  Mr Heng Chiang Meng: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Bukit Gombak asked earlier what was there to prevent crooks from becoming the majority in Parliament, and changing the Constitution to suit them. Sir, I agree that there is nothing except the peoples' votes at the General Elections and that is why we, in the PAP, have always emphasised the importance of making sure that the people vote for upright, honest and capable people. The people of Singapore are smart and that is why they continue to vote for the PAP. 

    Sir, I agree with the Member for Bukit Gombak - and it is not very usual that I do agree with him - that in a general 

  Mr Peh Chin Hua (in Mandarin): hoiyung: Mr Chiam, Mr Sinnakaruppan has the floor. 

    I refer to the statement made by the Member for Hougang just now. He said that the scenario may arise where you may only have ten elected Members and 70 nominated Members. I think this is an 

    For those who have spoken against the motion, I have heard nothing new. There is more heat than light. They have gone through some old grounds. Some, in fact, probably did not even look at what was debated in the past and repeated the same old points. I will just take one example, not specifically trying to single out Mr Ling. All the points that he has brought up have been answered in the Prime Minister's speech in 1989. If he had bothered to read the speech, then he would probably have raised a different question and not rehash the same position, same problem and the same questions that were raised previously. 

  hoiyung: I think Mr Chiam jumps to the conclusion too soon. 

  hoiyung: That question can quite simply be answered by looking at the records of the Opposition's speeches during the elections. Did they campaign against the NMP scheme? If they were so against the issue, did they say, "No, let us turn this around and have more Opposition in Parliament," and overturn this system and not to have NMPs? That is the key question. In fact, Mr Chiam should examine his records. 

  hoiyung: If the SDP has the majority support, then they should have contested in 81 constituencies and they should be here today as the government. But they have not been able to do so. Why? Try it. I think the next time round, commit yourself to 81 candidates. 

  hoiyung: First of all, Mr Ling should listen very carefully to what I say. I did not say that we need the NMPs here to point out your mistakes. I just said that it shows your inadequacies. Inadequacies are not mistakes. And for the PAP, we have no fear about it. 

    As for Mr Chiam's point about contesting in 81 seats, indeed, if he were to say for the record that he will contest 81 seats at the next elections, we shall wait for him. But at the last elections in 1991, he said that he would let the PAP form the Government. Now, will he tell us that in the next elections, he shall contest all the 81 seats? 

  hoiyung: Whether it is on the 28th December 1996 or the 25th December 1995, it is irrelevant. Mr Chiam has four or five years to get 81 candidates to contest the next elections. That is what is relevant. 

  hoiyung: I do not know how many years' notice does Mr Chiam want. If five years is not enough, how many years does he want? What date does he want to have? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: In fact, after every general election, there has always been adequate notice for the next elections. And that is the basis for the PAP governing from year to year, from term to term, because after the general elections, we prepare for the next elections. After the last elections, the SDP should do the same thing and prepare for the next elections. 

    Mr Ling and Mr Chiam, for example, have again brought up the comparison of how much the Ministers and Prime Ministers in other countries such as Britain, Australia, United States and New Zealand get. Looking at the state of political situation there, I wonder whether Mr Ling and Mr Chiam know that by bringing this comparison up, they are actually speaking for the motion, instead of against it. 

  The Prime Minister: I checked with Mr Chiam outside and he told me that I could add in variable bonuses. I checked with him outside because I was busy taking down notes over here. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam asked whether I would take it. If I can be sure that Mr Chiam will be around after the next elections, for the PM I am inclined to take it. Because then Mr Chiam cannot go around and say that what the PM earns in one day, a worker will take 30 days to earn. To the layman, $700,000 is a lot of money. Right? So if Mr Chiam goes around saying in future elections that the PM and the Ministers earn that much, I will say that Mr Chiam recommends it. 

    Yet another method suggested by Opposition MPs is to look at the earnings of Ministers elsewhere. Mr Ling suggested that we should look at what ASEAN Ministers and Prime Ministers or Presidents are paid. Mr Chiam circulated a table of what leaders are paid in some developed countries. So I take it that the argument is that we should look at the pay of other Ministers elsewhere and then pay our Ministers accordingly. I think such comparison is not meaningful on four counts. 

    Yes, Mr Chiam and of course hoiyungasked by the Government to use Sembawang as a vehicle to extend our investments into the region. He built up the defence industry, the Singapore Technologies Group. If Philip Yeo were not committed to the public service, he could easily go into the private sector and command a salary of over $1 million. No problem. There will be many people bidding for his services. 

  hoiyung: Mr Cheo, are you making a speech, or seeking clarification? 

Wong Kan Seng                 Cheo Chai Chen

Woon, Walter                  Chiam See Tong

Yeo Cheow Tong                Low Thia Khiang

  hoiyungasked to reply to Dr Ow's letter and another letter by the Press Secretary to the Prime Minister. If you read the SDP's reply, we asked, "would you please state the full text of Francis Seow?" Let us have his full text and we will reply. We will respond point by point - what are the points we agree and what are the points we do not agree. But there you are, you stop there! We were not accorded a complete text of what he said and you must always remember that we have no recording. When we went there, as far as I know, no recording was done. [Interruption]. We do not have a very efficient tape recording machine. We will wait until we have enough money, then perhaps we can have one that can tape 50 miles away. We do not have that. But the Government has got the press, and everything was recorded. It is only fair. You do not expect us to remember everything said by him and under what context those words were spoken. If you have given us the speech and we fail to respond, that is a different matter entirely. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I heard Mr Ling's comments and in it, he mentioned that the Secretary-General of his party, Dr Chee, was not 

 given a copy of the full text of Francis Seow's speech and, therefore, whatever he agreed may not be what he said. But it is irrelevant. I am sure he must have read Francis Seow's book To Catch a Tartar. And in that book, Francis Seow's stand on our judiciary is very clearly stated. His accusations of our judiciary are very clearly stated in that book. And if the SDP, having associated with Francis Seow and having read the book, can come to this House and deny that they did not agree with Francis Seow's speech on that particular day, I think it is not true. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, yesterday, the Senior Minister gave an in-depth account of the meticulous selection process of finding good Judges and Judicial Commissioners to run the judiciary system. And today, Prof. Jayakumar gives us the reasons why a good judiciary is important for Singapore. Our judiciary is open and transparent and for this very reason, we are not afraid to defend the system, if challenged. There is nothing to hide and we are open to any scrutiny. Thus, what took place at Williams College, namely, Francis Seow and Christopher Lingle's accusations of our judiciary and, unfortunately, agreed by SDP representatives, Dr Chee and two others, will not draw silent response and, thus, this debate. 

    I agree with Dr Ow's response two days ago in the Straits Times to Dr Chee's complaint that it was not right to debate the motion standing in the names of my Parliamentary colleagues, Dr Ow and Mr Davinder Singh, because the SDP representatives in this House were not at Williams College. So were also most of us in this House. 

    But, Mr Speaker, Sir, did not Dr Chee go to Williams College as an SDP member, and not as an individual? As he went as an SDP member, he must have had the blessings of the SDP's Central Executive Council, of which two of their members are in this House. Therefore, the SDP MPs in this House cannot disclaim Dr Chee's action at Williams College, as mentioned by Dr Ow. It is a question of shared responsibility. Can you imagine our Prime 

    Did Dr Chee and two SDP members go to Williams College on their own, or on sponsored tickets? Reading The New Democrat, the SDP's newsletter, I learned that Dr Chee was provided with an airline ticket by students of Williams College, through an organisation called Polis. But what hurts me was the headline on the ticket issue in The New Democrat. It reads and I quote: 

I think it is a cheap trick. It is deception by distortion. Singaporeans cannot be bluffed to believe what they read. The truth of the matter is that SDP is embarrassed by this. Does it matter whether it is economy or first class? It does not matter at all. The important point is that it is a sponsored ticket and, with it, the implications of a sponsored ticket. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, when you travel on a sponsored ticket, the sponsor hopes to get something back in return. And in this case, the "anti-Goh" group wanted Dr Chee to help them strengthen their case. And, Sir, the person who accepts the ticket has an obligation to return something back out of gratitude and, again, at Williams College, Dr Chee agreed with many things, though not all of the remarks made by Francis Seow, Christopher Lingle, William Safire and George Crane. Either the SDP is naive in failing to see the hidden agenda, or the leadership is silly to accept it. The embarrassment, Sir, must be quite telling for them to come out with the kind of headlines in this newspaper. 

    To make matters worse, many countries adopted similar stance and, thus, add to their frustrations. Human rights activists from Asiawatch and Amnesty International, I am sure, were at Williams College. And I believe they saw the visit by Prime Minister Goh as an opportunity to demonstrate their displeasure. So they roped in Dr Chee, two SDP members, together with Christopher Lingle, William Safire and Francis Seow, to lend support to their cause. They would not say this openly. In fact, they would deny this. But they have a good network. They want to put Singapore on trial. They want to debate Singapore in the United States to shame us for our crimes. On what? On human rights, on press freedom and a compliant judiciary system. And the SDP must have fitted well into their game plan when SDP announced it wanted to go to Williams College to attend the alternative panel discussion. And true enough at Williams College, the press reported Dr Chee agreeing with the utterances of Francis Seow and Christopher Lingle, especially on the subject of debate today in this House, ie, the integrity of our judiciary system. 

    This is a dangerous move for SDP. It would discredit the SDP's leadership because the SDP has positioned itself by allowing outsiders into the Singapore political arena, helping them interfere with our domestic politics. Is this what 

 Singaporeans want of the SDP, a party claiming to provide the alternative to the People's Action Party? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the worst thing is that those people who took strong stance against us had never been to Singapore and depended on hearsay to justify the misguided view of Singapore. And SDP, as I said, was prepared to share their platform at Williams College. If the PAP has really done such hostile things, such horrible things, as described by Safire, how could the PAP have been returned to this House every four to five years at every General Election. And for the SDP to stand on the same platform as these people shows their utter disregard for Singaporeans' democratic choice. Are Singaporeans not intelligent enough to make wise and correct decisions? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I read in the Business Times on 20th and 21st September 1995 that SDP wants to start a Singapore chapter of the FDLAP. I am sure Members in this House will know what FDLAP stands for. I did not know until I read it. It is called the Forum of Democratic Leaders in Asia Pacific. But what is its objective? To promote and facilitate the growth of democracy. It sounds very noble. It is based in South Korea and it was started by a Korean politician, named Kim Dae Jung. I follow the Korean political scene and, as you know, there is a huge sum of money being slushed around (you can read all this in the papers), something in the region of US$910 million. Is this the type of democracy we want slushing around in Singapore? SDP may feel comfortable starting such a chapter. But Singaporeans should take heed of what to expect if SDP wants to promote this brand of democracy in Singapore. They are starting a chapter here, so they are prepared to promote that brand of democracy. And this is where I think we must be extremely careful. 

 gentleman to come here and see for himself what we have achieved in the last 30 years. I think it is ridiculous. The SDP went to Williams College and this is the sort of advice they got. 

    Does the SDP expect Francis Seow to help their cause? Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Francis Seow is so captured by his past history with Lee Kuan Yew, that he is not fighting for the SDP's cause. He is fighting his own private battle. And the SDP has allowed itself to be dragged into this by agreeing to what he said at Williams College. Except for Mr Chiam, who being the wiser, a more matured politician, cleverly stayed away from his Party's stand. And to be fair to Mr Chiam, he cares too much for Singapore to want to allow foreigners to throw mud at us. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, just now I was listening to the Chairman of SDP, hoiyung: Sir, thank you for allowing me to join in this debate in the names of the Members for Leng Kee and Toa Payoh GRC. 

    Listening to the leader of the SDP, Mr Ling, making his rebuttal just now with regard to the motion before Parliament today, I was a little bit disturbed that even at this stage his defence of the action of his political party, which he leads, is of such muddled and twisted logic. He 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, such damaging statement made by a fugitive from the law in Singapore, and there we have this illustrious gathering of the SDP with their senior members, and the Chairman of the SDP claims that he does not know what Mr Francis Seow says at this gathering in Williamstown. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chay, are you giving way to Mr Ling? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have with me here a copy of the full speech of Mr Francis Seow at Williams College. With your permission, I will tender the speech through Dr Ow who will hand it to Mr Ling. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Ling, can you resume your seat. 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock: I want to ask Mr Ling whether he knows Dr Chee was present at the time when Francis Seow delivered his speech. 

  hoiyung: Do you want to give way to Mr Ling, Mr Chay? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am glad the Leader of the Opposition does not doubt the quotation. I hope he understands the quotation. I am very glad, Mr Speaker, Sir, that at least we have this motion for debate in Parliament today. Just now, Mr Ling himself said that in May he mentioned something in the House that reinforces the stand of the SDP in the justice system of Singapore. At that time, two Nominated Members, hoiyung: He is distorting facts. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, order in the House. Mr Chay, continue, please. 

    I have just said that in the Flor Contemplacion case, it was the two Nominated Members of Parliament who tabled the motion. When the Opposition party was decrying that Singapore's machinery of justice was on trial and the leader of the SDP wrote to the head of state of government, at that time the two Opposition parties were busy issuing statements to the press, pouring oil over fire, and what were the Opposition Members doing in Parliament? Majestically silent. 

    Therefore, Mr Speaker, Sir, I am very glad that this motion has been tabled for debate. This time, it concerns the independence and integrity of our judiciary. When attacks are made by fugitives from our justice, especially when leaders of a political party which is represented in Parliament, partake in the process where the attacks are made in full public forum and the international media, it is the duty of Parliament to debate the matter. The SDP leaders, especially the ones seated in this House, would be grossly derelict in their duties to Parliament and to Singapore if they do 

 not defend their other party leaders for what they did. They should explain to the House their party's action. And the party leaders of SDP flew all the way to the US for a chance to join in this "alternative panel", paid for by some Americans. 

    I am really surprised that the Secretary-General of the SDP could say that he accepted the paid tickets with honour and pride. If he had gone there to promote Singapore, one can at least understand. What we are seeing here is a leader of an Opposition party, with two other senior party executives, stooping to pick up the tickets and fly 14-16 hours to good old Williamstown to take part in an "alternative panel", together with fugitives from justice in Singapore, and there endorsed the attacks on our judiciary. How can the leaders of the SDP in this House take this sitting down? 

    `Singaporeans are not interested in what Americans think of us. What we want is a public debate between the Government and the Opposition before a Singapore audience on issues that concern us.' I wish to correct his twisted logic a little. What he meant to say is that the SDP, or he, thinks that Singaporeans are not interested in what Americans think of us. 

 but to provide a vehicle for two persons with their own axes to grind and mechanism to undermine the government of a country whose democratic approach to government is not in accord with the civil beliefs of Americans. The end was not scholarship or clarifying democracy in Singapore, but political ploy. It was no alternative, and no panel. And along the way comes the leader of an Opposition party who aspires to be the alternative government. The alternative panel comprising the fugitives from justice attacked the independence and integrity of our judiciary. The SDP leader who aspires to enter Parliament, and you call this party the loyal Opposition, did not even utter a squeal to dissociate the SDP from this castigation on one of the fundamental pillars of a democratic state. He was there agreeing with them on many things and presumably in his own telling words - "testing the limits". 

    I must thank the two hon. Members of Parliament for bringing to the House this motion for debate. The SDP members in order to be credible must make their reply more substantive than was said just a moment ago. What the SDP does outside Parliament in endorsing the attacks on our judiciary must also be accounted before Parliament. Otherwise, the rule of law is a sham. Parliament is not a charade. It is supreme. And those who aspire to reach it should have a healthy respect for it. And those who are in it should sacredly guard it. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Speaker, Sir, earlier on, we heard Mr Ling gave us a very enlightening speech but we are still very much in the dark about what he said because he did not shed much light. This is because he was also kept in the dark by his Secretary-General who was present that evening to take part in the alternative panel discussion and his Secretary-General did not tell him what was said, as he had no tape recorder with him at that time. 

    Since Mr Ling does not know what Mr Francis Seow had said and had no full briefing of it from his Secretary-General, and now that Mr Chay Wai Chuen, through Dr Ow, has given him the full text of that speech, I think it is only fair that we give Mr Ling time to study this text, check with his Secretary-General who was there at that time, and who is here today, which part of the speech that he agreed with, which part he did not agree with, and come back and tell us what Dr Chee meant by, "I do agree very much with many things that Mr Seow and Dr Lingle have said ...". And I hope that this time we will be much more enlightened than the earlier occasion. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Yes, of course, we will definitely need a break. We should also give a copy to Mr Low because I think earlier on, during the exchange, Mr Low was not here. May the Clerk make a copy as quickly as possible and give it to Mr Low, so that he could also study the speech, and to other Members of the House, of course. But give it to Mr Low first, so that he will also be aware of what was said by Francis Seow, and he can tell us his position. 

  An hon. Member: Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Chiam, definitely. I would not forget him. 

 to give Mr Ling a second chance afterwards to state his position, because under Standing Orders he can only speak once. But I think we could make an exception for him. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, do you want to speak? 

  hoiyung: Order. I think the Leader has made a good suggestion. Would thirty minutes be sufficient for you to read, Mr Ling? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Speaker, Sir, before we suspended the sitting, we said that we would give time to Mr Ling to study the text of Mr Francis Seow's 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, this is a very serious allegation of our judiciary and of our courts in Singapore. And what astounds me is that the Secretary-General of the SDP was present there. Instead of saying that he agreed to many of the things spoken by Francis Seow, he should immediately, after the speech, stand up and say that the judiciary in Singapore is not at all like that of what has been made out by Francis Seow. That is the position he should have taken. 

    It saddens me that the SDP is now run by a megalomaniac. This man wants the centre-stage. He wants the centre-stage all the time. I think it is this character which sends him to Williamstown. He thought he could get centre-stage there and he could get some publicity and score some political points. 

    I have not been consulted by the SDP. If I were consulted, I would have advised them against sending a delegation to attend the alternative panel discussion at Williams College. I give my reasons. One, the SDP does not need such publicity. Two, the fact that the SDP was there, it had already given support to that occasion because the purpose for which the alternative panel discussion was specifically organised was to denounce the honouring of Mr Goh Chok Tong and also to denounce the political system in Singapore which includes, of course, the judiciary. Three, as Singaporeans, we must have human decency, good manners and behave honourably. As Singaporeans, it is really in bad taste to attend a function organised by foreigners to denounce the conferring of high honours on our own Prime Minister. If we, as Singaporeans, do not respect our own Prime Minister, how else do you expect foreigners to respect Singapore's Prime Minister. 

  hoiyung: Some people think that the Opposition's duty is to tear down the system and one of the pillars popularly denounced, especially by people like Francis Seow, is the judiciary. I said "no", we should not do it. The SDP, in particular, should not do that. 

  hoiyung: Mr Ling, you have the floor now. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, this sidelining of Francis Seow's speech is not my doing. This is SDP quoting and sidelining what is in this text. I think it would be useful for Mr Ling, as the Leader of the Opposition, to take a stand on this and read out the passages that he agreed with or did not agree for the benefit of the whole House. There is no point showing it to me. I would just keep it to my chest. Please read it. 

  hoiyung: The whole SDP? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Ling, can I suggest that you read the words exactly for the purpose of the record, instead of just mentioning in passing the words. 

    I suppose Mr Ling will consider these four items that he has listed "many things". But my first question to him here is: which of these four items he has listed constitute "difficulties" which Dr Chee and his colleagues, who are here this evening, are going through? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Can I confirm with Mr Ling that he meant what he said just now in his main speech? He said that the only mistake his Secretary-General made in Williams College was to say that "I do agree very much with many of the things Dr Lingle and Mr Francis Seow have said." Can I just confirm that? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Would Mr Ling now say that his Secretary-General should have stood up at the alternative panel and specifically refuted all these points which we have listed down, which we have challenged him on, and which after repeated challenges, the SDP has refused to come clean and say that they repudiate these following specific statements of Francis Seow? You will note, Mr Speaker, Sir, that even now, with the text in front of him, he has preferred to just identify the frivolous items which he agreed with and blandly say, "Well, the rest we have no view." I want to know whether he has no view or whether he repudiates them as false, unjustified, evil and totally wrong. 

  hoiyung: As I said earlier, the SDP has never questioned the integrity. With that first remark, I will come to your point. As I mentioned earlier, we have never questioned the independence and integrity of the judiciary. This is the view of the CEC. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Will The New Democrat, in view of the clarifications offered this afternoon, now publish in full Francis Seow's speech, the transcript of what Dr Chee said at the alternative panel following Francis Seow's speech and a further full clarification that the Secretary-General of the SDP and the whole CEC of the SDP are now completely convinced that all these statements were, without reservation, unjustified and defamatory, that the SDP was wrong not to have made this clear at Williams College at the occasion immediately the matter was raised, and that they now clearly state their stand that they have full confidence in the integrity of the judiciary, and that they apologise to the judges, the Government and the people of Singapore for what they have done? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, let us be quite clear. I am not asking you to apologise for impugning the judge. I am asking you to state, firstly, that there was no basis whatsoever for any of Francis Seow's scurrilous attacks on the judiciary. Secondly, that the SDP regrets that its Secretary-General and his delegation failed to stand up and make quite clear its stand there and then at the alternative panel. And thirdly, to remedy this fault, the SDP now unreservedly states quite clearly that it has full confidence in the integrity and the competence of the 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: You have two CEC members here, and you also have hoiyung: "Dr Chee Soon Juan, Secretary-General of the SDP, on behalf of the SDP". 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think it is very important for us to know the SDP's view, in particular, the views of the two SDP Members, since Mr Chiam has already stated his view. We will have a short adjournment, so that he can clarify his mind and his position. 

  Mr Speaker: I think it is very wise of Mr Ling to ask for 15 minutes' adjournment and we should accede to his request. I therefore suspend the Sitting again for 15 minutes and will take the Chair at 3.35 pm. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, you have the floor now. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, can I then confirm Mr Ling's personal position once more that he considers it wrong what Francis Seow had said, he considers it wrong what Dr Chee Soon Juan did not say, and if the party does not make this clear, he will make this clear himself? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, can I then request Mr Ling to explain why this mistake was repeated after Dr Chee returned to Singapore, when Dr Ow Chin Hock asked him to clarify his position and, subsequently, when Mr Chan Heng Wing asked him to clarify his position, and he had full opportunity to consult with all the members of the SDP CEC, including Mr Ling and Mr Cheo in Singapore? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, these were not new issues. I do not believe that Mr Ling understands the gravity of his position. These issues were first raised at the beginning of May when we debated them in the context of Flor Contemplacion and the SDP had already equivocated. They claimed that they were taking a neutral position between Singapore and the Philippine critics of Singapore but, nevertheless, had a high opinion of the Singapore judiciary. That was the equivocation which Mr Ling now cites in his defence explaining why Dr Chee did not clarify his position properly in Williams College. 

    At the beginning of August, after Dr Chee got involved with the Goverment's debate against William Safire, Dr Ow Chin Hock cited the items which William Safire wrote against us, talking about the Chief Justice, talking about the Judges, talking about miscarriage of justice and official cover-up in Flor Contemplacion, and asked for the SDP's position. There was no transcript to speak about, because these were William Safire's published columns in the public record reproduced in full in the Straits Times. Why was there no response? Then Dr Chee went to Williams College. Francis Seow repeated the same. Why was there no response? Dr Ow asked him again after he came back. No reply. Mr Chan Heng Wing finally said, "Please give me a transcript of Francis Seow's speech." Your ears are not sufficient? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Can I ask Mr Ling then what transcript he would request in order to clarify his position on the statements made by Mr William Safire? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Ling, would you like to continue? 

Dr Chee said all these things. Mr Ling has it in the The New Democrat in his hand. Why, from this long list of rebuttals of what William Safire said, was there not a single mention of William Safire's mistakes apropos the Singapore judiciary? 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Resume your seat, Mr Ling. I want to remind the Member that he should refrain from engaging in conversation in the House with others. 

  hoiyung: Order in the House. Mr Ling, I have not heard any remark being made. But I heard you engaging in a conversation with somebody else, and I think this is not the proper way to participate in a debate in the House. You will address the Chair and you will do so when you are asked to do so. Resume your seat, please. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Mr Ling is squirming. I feel slightly sorry for him, but not too much. I understand his position. I hope he will be able to sort it out internally. 

 other Opposition Members in the House. Because it is not a matter where you can hide under the general cloak of the party position. Mr Ling has made quite clear that he disapproves completely of what Mr Francis Seow has said and also considers it a grave mistake, if I do not overstate his case, what Dr Chee did in Williams College. Can I confirm that? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I am asking Mr Cheo. 

  hoiyung: No. I did not say that the SDP was totally wrong. Mr Speaker, Sir, with your indulgence, I explained earlier that I cannot vote for the motion. If you look at the motion, it is very clear. If we vote for the motion, we are admitting that we are supporting what Francis Seow said. 

  hoiyung: Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: I was given to understand that you would be speaking. That is why I called on you. You may proceed now, Mr Low. You can speak. 

    Just now, the Leader of the House asked me to comment. I do not think I am in a position to comment or specifically to say what I agree or do not agree, because I do not want to end up like the SDP. Perhaps if you want me to do so, then maybe the Leader of the House would like to translate it into Chinese and tell me what are the implications specifically so that I could say whether I do or do not agree. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Low has said that he does not think there is any basis for Francis Seow to attack the Singapore judiciary. But he has also said that he regrets being unable to read the flowery language which Mr Francis Seow has used. I think we can overcome this difficulty which Mr Low has got if we ignore most of Francis Seow's speech and focus on the operative paragraph on the first page. I will read it carefully in English and Mr Low can listen carefully to the translation which he will receive simultaneously in Mandarin, and then he can tell me whether he agrees with that or whether he totally repudiates that. I do not think it is good enough to make a general statement that he does not think he agrees. I think it is necessary to 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, there are no flowers in that paragraph. It is perfectly clear. It is in simple English. As Mr Seow has said, he is calling a spade a spade. I want to know what Mr Low calls it. 

 Minister to make a statement for my Party. On the other hand, it seems to me that the SDP Members are being accused in this House of not representing the SDP because what they say does not represent the SDP. I do not understand what is all this. 

    `(1) notes with regret that the Secretary-General of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP), Dr Chee Soon Juan, with two other SDP members, attended the "alternative panel" discussion ..., and 

    (2) deplores the SDP's support for a baseless attack ...'. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Sir, I take it that the Member is aware and remembers that Mr Francis Seow was the Workers' Party candidate in the 1988 General Elections and, for all I know, remains a Workers' Party member and therefore makes this statement with the endorsement at least of the Workers' Party, if not before, now after the fact, after you know about it, and you fail to dissociate yourself from it, or to expel him from the Party, that means you endorse him. 

    (a) Is Dr Chee Soon Juan deaf? If not, after listening to Seow's and Lingle's speeches, including their attacks on our judiciary, why did Dr Chee not rebut Seow and Lingle? Mr Ling said that was his only mistake, but I say that was a very big mistake because Dr Chee did say that the SDP had its own agenda at Williams College, and his mission was to clear up any misperception that foreigners or Americans have about Singapore. 

    (b) Why did the SDP not respond to William Safire's attacks on our judiciary even before Williams College, at Williams College and after Williams College? All these were published in letters to the Straits Times and Lianhe Zaobao in September and early October. I have shown Mr Ling copies of these letters. 

Chiam See Tong                  Peh Chin Hua

Lee Boon Yang                   Cheo Chai Chen

Lee Ching Yen, Stephen          Ling How Doong

Leong Horn Kee                  Low Thia Khiang

    (1) notes with regret that the Secretary-General of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP), Dr Chee Soon Juan, with two other SDP members, attended the "alternative panel" discussion organised by Dr George Crane in Williams College on 15 September 1995, and there endorsed Mr Francis Seow's attacks on the judiciary, and 

    (2) deplores the SDP's support for a baseless attack by a fugitive from justice on the independence and integrity of our judiciary and legal system, that ensure the rule of law in Singapore. 

  Mr Heng Chiang Meng: Sir, my point is that experience has shown that credit allocation by Government never worked in achieving desired objectives. This is to answer a point by Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, could you ask your question? Are you making a speech? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, I suggest that you file that as a separate question. Do you have any other questions related to the matter? 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam should check his figures before he makes a sweeping statement like that. The number of the lowly educated in our workforce is high because of the aged workers. Many of the older workers did not have the chance to go through 10 years of schooling. That is why, in proportion, it is quite a big number. But the number of drop-outs every year from school in our system is actually very small. And we are doing our best according to the methods that we think will work, which are counselling, improving the teaching methods, 

    I do not deny that this salary revision will cost us some votes because the Opposition will play up the politics of envy. And indeed they have, at every election, by mischievously and wrongly comparing how much a Minister earns with what an average worker earns a month. Today, Mr Ling has said that he does not begrudge the pay of the Ministers. Mr Chiam and Mr Low seem to be supportive. Of course, they made some valid points about Ministers coming in to serve not just for money alone. I hope they will remember what they have said today and at future elections do not play up this politics of envy just for the votes. There is some political cost. But I have to weigh this against the greater cost to the country and Singaporeans if we fail to have a Cabinet of integrity and exceptional ability. I have weighed the costs to the PAP, and decided that whatever they are, the larger interests of the nation must prevail. 

  hoiyung: Order. On 20th August 1993, I received a letter dated 20th August 1993 from the Acting Secretary-General of the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) informing me that hoiyung: I wish to take this opportunity to place on record the deaths of Dr Yeoh Ghim Seng, former Speaker of Parliament on 3rd June 1993, and of Dr Tay Eng Soon, former Senior Minister of State for Education and Member for Eunos GRC, on 5th August 1993. 

  In Mandarin): I fully agree with Dr Soin's statement. Therefore, I can accept on the humanitarian ground. But I would like to rebut what Mr Ling said just now. He was trying to encourage people to commit crime. I do not understand. If he was not encouraging people to commit crime, then he should support this Bill. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not sure whether he wants those provisions to be deleted. But, obviously, there must be a safeguard for the accomplice provision. It is reasonable to impose this penalty on an accomplice if he had knowledge that the offender was carrying the arm or had in his possession or under his control such arm. Next, should he suffer the death penalty? This is not a new section. It is an existing provision. So I have not changed that at all. This is what the legislature had enacted many years ago, and, I think, very wisely. He shall suffer the death penalty unless he proves that he had taken all reasonable steps to prevent the use of such arm. I think that is a reasonable position unless Mr Ling wants to remove that safeguard. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I have stated, the intention, at present, is to exempt all local charities from the requirement to apply for a licence. So the concern that Mr Low has raised should not inhibit local charities from collecting and raising funds for local charitable purposes. The regulation being put in place is basically aimed at protecting Singapore donors from fund raisers who are raising funds for foreign charities. For local charities, there are sufficient safeguards in place in order to ensure that the local charities apply their funds appropriately. For that reason, local charities are being exempted for the time being. For foreign charities, no such safeguards are in place and the Commissioner of Charities has no powers to investigate them. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, would you allow the Minister to complete his answer? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Low, are you asking a question? 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Point of order, Mr Speaker. I think Mr Chiam is asking a question about the PCF. The Minister for Education is not in charge of the PCF. He should direct his question to the PCF. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, this is not a debate. This is Question Time. 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I raise a point of order because there are so many other Questions and, in the interest of the despatch of parliamentary business, we should conduct our proceedings orderly. The question really is whether the supplementary questions by Mr Chiam are properly put. Standing Orders No. 18 says: 

    Mr Chiam maintains that the PCF kindergartens are under the charge of the Minister for Education solely by reason of the fact that the Ministry approves and registers them. Supposing there is a kindergarten run by the YMCA in Potong Pasir. It is approved by the Ministry of Education. But because of some difference of opinion with Mr Chiam, the YMCA decides to pull off, does it mean the Minister for Education must answer why the YMCA has pulled it off? Obviously, no. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have to make a ruling on the point of order first. I will accept the point of order that has been raised. Do you have any more supplementary questions pertaining to this topic? 

  hoiyung: That is not a point of order, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have already made a ruling on the point of order and it is not a subject of debate. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, I think you do not know what is a point of order. A point of order has been made. I have made a ruling. There is no more debate on this. Do you have any more supplementary questions to the question that you have asked? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, your question is not relevant. Do you have any more supplementary questions? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, if you have no more questions, I will ask you to resume your seat. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, there are a lot of Questions on the Order Paper today. You had a long time on the floor already. I shall now allow you one more supplementary question. Now, ask your supplementary question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you asking a question or do you want to engage in a debate? 

  Mr Speaker: Order. Mr Chiam, I must warn you that you are disrupting the proceedings of the House by constantly interrupting the answers given by the Minister. I suggest that you listen to the answer before saying anything else. You may continue, Mr Lee. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: I was trying to explain to Mr Chiam and to Members that although the Ministry registers the schools, it does not run the schools. For example, it does not run the private schools and there are many private schools. In the same way, the PCF kindergarten is a private school. So it is not for the Ministry to say whether they have certain conditions for their enrolment or whether they should expand the capacity in certain places. These are entirely 

  hoiyung: First of all, Sir, the number is actually about 26,000. But this is the overall number. As I have said, the normal deregistrations for that period are around 2,000 to 3,000 a month. So if you take the extraordinary number of vehicles, above and beyond this number, it is something like 16,000 or 17,000. So we really do not have the "37,000" figure that was mentioned by Mr Chiam. But having said that, as I explained in my answer just now, we are currently reviewing this policy of putting back the deregistered COEs 12 months later and try to bring them forward, with the intention of increasing the supply to keep up with the increased demand for COEs. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, ask your question. 

  hoiyung: I think the Member for Potong Pasir did not understand my answer. Basically, the Town Councils are managing the estates on behalf of the owner. The Town Councils do not own the common property. So when you want to do something, obviously you have to seek the consent of the owner. That is the first reason. You are only managing the common property, you are not the landowner of the common property. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, please learn to frame your remarks in the form of a question. Could you go direct to your supplementary question? 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok (Tampines GRC): Sir, will the Minister of State confirm that several Town Councils have implemented improvement projects in their towns and that Mr Chiam is only using this as an excuse for not taking these projects off the ground? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your question? 

    First, a few clarifications on Mr Chiam's points. I believe that the IRAS is not going to be a private company to be listed in the Stock Exchange. Perhaps that is his hope. But, as I understand it, the IRAS is going to be a statutory board. So I think he is extending his imagination too far. Besides, Singapore Telecom is not a private company yet. He continues to talk about how Singaporeans are paying onerous and burdensome tax. The fact is that while the tax paid in Singapore is wide, not many people pay a lot of taxes. Most people in Singapore pay less than $500 in taxes or thereabouts. If you factor in the benefits, I think most Singaporeans will agree that what they pay is value for money. So I think his arguments are totally groundless, totally irrelevant. I think he has a high sense of drama and he exaggerates minor things, and he has a flair for hyperbole. 

    This ties in very nicely with the President's Address of January 1992. In that Address, the President advised that Government departments should, whenever possible, be subject to the market discipline as private companies do, but not amounting to what Mr Chiam has understood to be listed in the Stock Exchange. 

  hoiyung: No, Mr Chiam, that is not a point of order. Mr Koo, you can continue with your speech. 

  Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Sir, I would like to thank Mr Leong and Mr Koo for supporting the Bill. I will try to alleviate Mr Chiam's concerns about the reasons for the change. 

    I now turn to the concerns raised by Mr Chiam. He was also worried that the transfer of the Department to a statutory board would mean an increase in both the tax collected from the public and wanted to know why it is necessary to sharpen the knife to collect more taxes since the Government is already collecting vast sums. I would like to assure him that the tax levying function is still retained by the Ministry of Finance, subject to the approval of Parliament. In other words, only the Ministry of Finance and the Government can propose tax changes which affect the tax payable by our citizens, and that is subject to final approval by Parliament. The IRAS has no power whatsoever to change tax rates. It merely collects what is due to the Government. 

    Mr Chiam also wanted to know why we need to collect more of the uncollected taxes because revenue collections are rising very healthily, and we have large balances and surpluses. Tax rates, as I said, are determined by Government, and Government's record in tax changes, I think, has been very satisfactory, in fact very generous, because over the past few years both corporate and personal taxes have been cut regularly. We have in fact not increased taxes other than those levied for specific social needs, such as petroleum taxes, liquor taxes, tobacco taxes and water conservation taxes. 

    Sir, Mr Chiam has said that the Government is straying from the original purpose of CPF by requiring the self-employed to contribute to Medisave. Medisave is not a new scheme. Medisave has been in existence since 1984. It is very much part and parcel of the original concept of the CPF Act to enable all wage earners, all workers, to put aside some of their income in anticipation of their future requirements, whether it is just retirement expenses, living expenses, but also to meet their future medical expenses. Therefore, extending the Medisave scheme to include the self-employed is very much in line with the objectives of the CPF scheme. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to thank Mr Chiam for raising 

 this point. In fact, he is correct. We are only extending this contribution to the CPF by the self-employed for Medisave at this present moment. In fact, we would like to encourage all self-employed persons to contribute to the other accounts in the CPF, ie, Ordinary Account and the Special Account. I am very pleased that Mr Chiam supports this move. In due course, perhaps we can take up his suggestion and move in the direction to extend the entire CPF scheme to all self-employed persons. Anyway, at the present moment, CPF does encourage all self-employed persons to contribute to the CPF as any other employee. It is voluntary. And in order to encourage them, CPF actually provides all self-employed persons who make contribution to their CPF account tax exemption on CPF contributions up to a limit of, I believe, about $12,800 a year. So this is a gesture to ensure that the self-employed are not left out of the CPF scheme and they are also able to save from their current income to put aside money which they will need for their old age. 

  hoiyung: Before I move the adjournment, Sir, may I advise all Members present here to read up the Standing Orders before they rise on a point of order. Please be clear on what point of order to refer to, and not just say "point of order" and make a speech. In particular, I refer to Mr Chiam who has risen a couple of times on a point of order without really knowing what point of order he was talking about. 

    I do not know when Mr Chiam passed through the Checkpoint. Maybe he chose days when it was terribly crowded. But let me assure the Member that steps have been taken to expedite the clearance process by Immigration at the Checkpoint. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you get to the point and ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, ask your question, please. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, do you have any other supplementary questions on this subject? You are straying from the substantive question. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if he heard my answer, the nine members are Advisers to the CCCs. They are in charge of CCC projects and whatever the CCCs wish to do for the residents. They happen to be PAP Members of Parliament. This question has been asked many times by Mr Chiam about him being an Adviser. The answer is that he is not an Adviser. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you are asking more or less the same question over and over again. Unless you have something new to ask, I intend to move on to the next Question. Have you got anything new to ask? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, I think you are still asking more or less similar questions. I will allow you one more supplementary question because we have to move on. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the footpath proposed by Mr Cheo would be on a parcel of State land reserved for future development. As such, the Government has no plans to construct a concrete footpath on this site. 

    Mr Chiam has asked two questions relating to drug offences. He feels that the scope for Singaporeans, particularly those who are being charged under these changes, is too wide and therefore there is a risk that people will be inadvertently caught. I have said that the provisions are such that for the charges to stand, there should be a prima facie case that the offence has been committed and that the court is satisfied. I think this is quite a significant safeguard so that no casual offences would be incurred by Singaporeans. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I take it that Mr Chiam is complimenting the NRD for introducing the system. I do not think it is a question of lateness. It is a question of getting the act together and making sure that enough agencies participate before the system can be implemented. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam does exaggerate. Trees do not grow overnight. Even the Angsana trees took us a long time to grow. If not for the foresight of the Government in insisting that trees be planted from the early 1960s, we will not have the green environment that we have today. So all trees of mature girth should be preserved, whether they are hardwood or softwood. 

  Mr Lim Hng Kiang: Mr Speaker, Sir, in case Mr Chiam fails to recollect, we had the HUDC Housing Estates Act in the early 1970s before we had the Land Titles (Strata) Act. In the HUDC Housing Estates Act, it is stipulated that you can only have an upgrading or improvement proposal if 

  hoiyung: Sir, I will take the opportunity to check out what Mr Chiam has said. But my understanding is that under the Land Titles (Strata) Act, an upgrading is passed if not more than 25% object to it and that 25% is based on the strata values, which means all the owners of the estate. Similarly, for the HUDC Housing Estates Act, we are making the amendment that not more than 25% object to it and that means all the owners of the housing estate. 

    On 4th November 1995, I received a written complaint dated 3rd November 1995 from the Member for Potong Pasir, hoiyungasked him to resume his seat and reminded Mr Ling to refrain from engaging in conversation with others in the House as that was not the proper way to participate in a debate of the House, whereupon Mr Ling remarked "When he is unparliamentary, why should I be parliamentary to him?". 

    On receipt of the complaint by Mr Chiam, I wrote to Mr Ling on 14th November 1995, asking for his response to Mr Chiam's complaint. Mr Ling, in his written explanation on 17th November 1995, said that other than certain words, he could not recall the rest and that he had uttered those words because he was provoked by remarks made by Mr Chiam. Mr Ling's letter (Cols. 409 - 410) to me has also been circulated to Members. 

Mr Ling's letter (Cols. 409 - 410)

    I have perused the Official Report of the Parliamentary Debates where it was recorded that Mr Ling had uttered the words that he had admitted to in his letter of 17th November 1995, which language I find to be unparliamentary and, as such, it is a breach of Standing Order 48(4). I am also of the opinion that the words "When he is unparliamentary, why should I be parliamentary to him?", in response to my order to refrain from engaging in conversation with others in the House and to resume his seat, are contemptuous of the Chair and undermine the dignity of the House. 

    At a meeting with Mr Ling on 30th November 1995 in my chambers I informed Mr Ling that no matter what the provocation was, he had no excuse to use unparliamentary language in the House. Mr Ling agreed unreservedly to withdraw his unparliamentary remarks contained in the Official Report and to apologise to the House. He will also apologise for being 

    I will now call upon Mr Ling to make his statement. 

(Complaint by Member for Bukit Gombak)

Mr Chiam's letter (Cols. 407 - 408)

Mr Ling's letter (Cols. 409 - 410)

Mr Ling's complaint (Cols. 411 - 412)

    One final point, Sir. We now have four Opposition Members in this House, three of whom are from the same party, the SDP. For informal communication between me, as Leader of the House, and the Opposition, I propose to deal with Mr Chiam as the unofficial Leader of the Opposition. It is like the position in the Legislative Assembly in 1955 when the PAP won three out of four contested seats in the Legislative Assembly, and Mr Lee Kuan Yew was unofficially and de facto Leader of the Opposition. As its unofficial Opposition Leader, this House should give Mr Chiam due courtesy and precedence among Opposition MPs. 

  Dr Ker Sin Tze (Aljunied GRC): Sir, is the Senior Parliamentary Secretary aware that in the last issue of The New Democrat, the SDP had criticised the Government for acquiring land as low as $1? 

  Assoc. Prof. Ho Peng Kee: Sir, this is typical of the SDP in trying to distort and mislead the people. It made it out that valuable plots of land were unjustifiably acquired at $1. Sir, I have explained the situation. In any particular case where an aggrieved owner feels that the land has greater value, say, that it has potential for independent development, there is an avenue of appeal under the Land Acquisition Act. 

    The task of the CRC was not easy. They had the most unpleasant meeting with the Singapore Democratic Party (SDP) and Pertubuhan Kebangsaan Melayu Singapura (PKMS). The meeting was marred by bad manners, hostile attitudes and irresponsible behaviour displayed by the two opposition parties. Fortunately, the CRC meetings with the other organisations, like the Consumers Association of Singapore, Emporium Holdings and NTUC Fairprice were more sober and fruitful. 

    It was obvious that Dr Chee Soon Juan and his group were out to confuse and mislead the public with distortions. Dr Chee has the habit of making wild and unfounded allegations. He would bring up isolated cases and personal anecdotes and treat them as though they are rampant in Singapore. He should know better that one swallow does not make a summer. It is true that prices and costs have risen but the increases were by no means "phenomenal" as exaggerated by SDP and PKMS. The vast majority of Singaporeans are enjoying higher standards of living and better lifestyles than before. 

    For the SDP and PKMS to allege that the cost of living represented by the Consumer Price Index was hidden from the public through a "statistical massage of numbers" was a grave affront to all Members of Parliament. Every year, Parliament debates the Government budget of expenditure. Are they suggesting that we MPs are being misled? And worse still, Parliament is insinuated as perpetuating the misrepresentation of official statistics. I wonder what the Opposition Members of Parliament have got to say of these accusations. I am glad that the CRC in making its independent and objective evaluation has once again re-affirmed the integrity of Singapore's statistical system and the consistency and soundness of the Consumer Price Index. 

    In his speech just now, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first of all, let me join the Members who have spoken before me in commending the members of the Cost Review Committee for their thoroughness and professionalism in addressing Singaporeans' concerns on their cost of living. They have scrutinised the allegations made by the PKMS-SDP that the rise in the cost of living in Singapore was, to quote them, "no less than phenomenal" and that the CPI was the result of "statistical massage of the numbers". Sir, the Committee found these allegations to be totally false and baseless. Their conclusion has upheld the reputation of the Department of Statistics and the team of professionals working there. 

    The Cost Review Committee Report covered a wide area - from food, housing, education, transport, health, the impact of the GST; and also assessed the impact on the poor and the elderly during the last 2-3 years of rapid economic growth. Sir, when the opposition, namely, the SDP and the PKMS, makes serious accusations that the rise in the cost of living has been no less phenomenal and that data in our statistical series have been massaged in order to hide the phenomenal rise in the cost of living, it is important that the Government must establish the truth, in order to separate the facts from the pervasive falsities that of late have emanated ceaselessly from the SDP. 

 foreign exchange markets in reaction to scenarios enjoined by these data. These, in turn, affect cost of borrowings for businesses and individuals, access to credit facilities, affecting investments and jobs in the economy. The US leading indicators are watched and monitored intensely, and with no lapses of memory by research analysts and statistical clerks in mutual fund bodies, pension fund institutions and central banks across the world, because billions of dollars of investments are affected by the optimism or pessimism generated by these data. Therefore, the SDP-PKMS accusations must be taken very seriously and rebutted as such. 

    The job of trade unions is to speak up when there is injustice, not just in the narrow field of industrial relations but in the wider social context. For example, I find the stance taken by the SDP extremely dangerous. To gain popular support, the SDP is trying to work the ground on the cost of living and in doing so, by launching a systematic misinformation campaign. For example, the SDP had claimed that household expenditure had risen phenomenally between 1987/1988 and 1992/1993. It came to this conclusion not as a result of its own research but by merely citing official statistics. It is true that the average household expenditure has risen by 76%, but not all has been the result of price increases. The Department of Statistics had pointed out that only 14 percentage points could be attributed to price increases and the rest were due to our buying more and better things as our lifestyles change for the better. 

    When the SDP research team appeared before the Cost Review Committee, its members insisted, against the weight of evidence, that the household expenditure increases were largely due to price increases. NTUC Fairprice and Emporium Holdings had effectively demolished the SDP's argument. Both major retailers reported that it was the more expensive, branded items that were selling better. The SDP alleged that there had been a statistical massage. But through some weird logic, something that defies explanation, the SDP explained that statistical massage did not mean massaging statistics. To create confusion in the people's minds, the SDP inflated the increases in HDB selling prices in order to show that there has been an alarming increase in housing. 

    Let me refer to paragraph 22 of the CRC Report in the Executive Summary on page 4. The SDP-PKMS had alleged that HDB flat prices had risen by more than 100% between 1990 and 1994. Data from HDB showed that prices did not rise as much. 

 The prices for 4-room Model A, 5-room and Executive flats rose by 5.4%, 10% and 11% a year respectively between 1992 and 1995. In other words, SDP's research people have got their sums wrong, either because of incompetence or through sheer malice. The HDB says that public housing remains within the means of the workers. This assurance should help counter SDP's campaign of misinformation. To undermine public confidence in the Government, the SDP tells people that Government acquires land for as little as $1. To get to the bottom of this $1 land issue, I submitted a Question for Oral Answer. I am satisfied with the answer. 

    Government acquires land only if such land is needed for public purposes, but there are bits and pieces of land that are of little value. For example, older Singaporeans remember that in their old tenements, there used to be backlanes. What were these backlanes for? One purpose was to allow for the removal of buckets of nightsoil. If there were no backlanes, these buckets had to go through the front door. Thank goodness we now have modern sanitation and there is no more need for trafficking of nightsoil. So Government pays a token sum of $1 for such pieces of land as a backlane, and no one is put at a disadvantage. And this $1 land can hardly be used to build HDB flats. So why is the SDP thinking so low to claim that Government buys land for $1 but subsequently makes people pay thousands of dollars for HDB flats? This is another example of SDP's misinformation. 

    In the New Democrat, the SDP has repeatedly tried to agitate the people over the issue of Ministers' salaries. The SDP has misinterpreted the issue on at least two counts: by comparing what Ministers earned years ago with what they earn now, as if they would not have moved up in their careers; by giving the notional gross monthly pay of Ministers and implying that on top of all this, they also get 11 months of bonuses. This systematic misinformation is a sad reflection of opposition politics today. We want a strong democracy, but it should be based on objective assessment of issues using correct facts and figures. It should not be based on misinformation. 

    The CRC has done a good job. It has been thorough in assessing the situation. It has debunked the wild claims of the SDP. It has shown that we have an effective system of government backed by various social organisations. Lower-income workers need not despair. There are avenues for them to rise if they are prepared to go for training and retraining. There are bursaries. There are scholarship awards for children of lower-income workers. Of course, despite scholarships, expenditure of families with children in polytechnics and universities must go up. This is described in the CRC Report as the middle-age squeeze. But money spent on our children's education is an investment for a better future. The CRC Report notes that those in need of help get assistance not only from Government but also from other welfare organizations. We are a caring society. I am proud to be a member of such a society. 

    In 1992, when we set up the Cost Review Committee comprising a cross-section of people from all walks of life, we invited the opposition parties which have MPs in Parliament to join the Committee. The Singapore Democratic Party declined. We proceeded with one opposition party, the Workers' Party, represented in the Committee. 

    When we reconvened the Committee again this year, the SDP made great play about how serious they were in wanting to participate and to get to the bottom of things, but they twisted and turned and, eventually, chickened out. hoiyungasked the question whether this was out of inability to look at the figures or was there some other intent. In case Members may not be too clear as to how they had inflated it, basically, it is quite straightforward. They took the prices of 4-room new generation flats for the base year and then used the subsequent prices of 4-room Model A HDB flats, and they used, not the base price, but the average price. And that was how they had inflated the rate of increase of HDB flat prices over those few years. One can only surmise why it was done this way, because they were not able to understand the figures or because of malice. This I leave to you to form your opinions. 

    Then in the SDP's New Democrat, they claimed that the Government is collecting a lot of money from the foreign workers levy in the construction industry and said that there are 300,000 workers. There are no 300,000 workers in the construction industry. There are 29,000, which is less than one-tenth of what the SDP claimed. 

    I think hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like to make a clarification. My colleague told me that he heard me saying that when I referred to the SDP New Democrat which claimed that there are 300,000 foreign workers in HDB construction sites, I mentioned that there are 29,000 foreign workers in the construction industry. The SDP did claim that there are 300,000 foreign workers in HDB construction sites in their report. But the total number of both foreign and local workers on HDB sites is only 29,000. Therefore, the SDP had inflated the figure by more than 10 times. 

    One is the noticeable absence of the SDP MPs this afternoon. Most probably they are having their dispute sorted out in another chamber! The second point I want to make with regard to cost and money is that we should be grateful in Singapore that money does not bring us very far. We subscribe to the principle of meritocracy and Singaporeans have every opportunity to achieve position and rewards. In Singapore it is not money that you can buy success. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Bukit Gombak may have obtained the figure of 1,380 destitute and aged persons from the FY 1994-95 Budget Book. This is only an estimate of the number of destitute persons likely to reside in the three welfare homes administered by my Ministry in FY 93/94. 

    The last point he raised was that the Government is giving less and less to the people. I would like to counter this point. Mr Speaker, Sir, I think if he has read the Budget carefully, he must acknowledge that this year's Budget is definitely very pro-individual. The individual receives quite a few goodies. Besides the 3% personal tax cut, he also gets a 5% tax rebate, HDB service and conservancy charges and rental charges rebates as well as $300 CPF Share Ownership Top-up into his account. If Mr Ling does not like this Budget, perhaps he would like to ask the Minister to withdraw all these concessions to the people. 

  Mr Speaker: Yes, Mr Ling. 

    Sir, imagine if we do not have CPF that has been implemented since 1954, then we would not be able to talk about withdrawal of savings at 55, and many people may not be able to accumulate savings by then if it has been free for all. If you take the case of Hong Kong, where it is a free market and there is no CPF, a lot of them are now asking for CPF, which is quite the reverse in comparison to our case. The issue that we have to address is savings at old age and how this is going to be drawn out in terms of allowing people to use their savings effectively when they are old. I think that is the basic question that we have to address. The Member for Bukit Gombak in fact has missed the issue. I feel that this whole issue of CPF will have to be looked at in that context. 

  Mr Kenneth Chen Koon Lap (Hong Kah GRC): Mr Speaker, Sir, thank you for letting me join in this debate. Before I turn to the debate proper, I just want to touch on a point made by the hon. Member for Potong Pasir on the equation of GST by reducing the S&C charges and also the rental for 2- and 3-room rental flats. If he had been in this House during the GST debate last year, he would have realised that HDB flat dwellers who stay in 1-, 2-, 3- and 4-room flats have received waivers which more than cover the GST to be imposed. The recent introduction of the so-called ang pow is in addition to the GST deflation. 

    The business community, in particular, seems to have taken a somewhat short-sighted view of this year's Budget. One of their main disappointments is that there has been no cut in the corporate tax rates. This reflects a failure on the part of businesses to link this year's Budget Statement to that announced last year. Worse still, some employers, and even some Members of this House, including Mr Chiam, have expressed their unhappiness at the much awaited one and a half percent restoration to the employer's CPF contribution rate. Such griping will come to no good and will only result in generating workers' distrust in their employers. These employers certainly seem to have a short memory. If only they care to cast their minds back to 1986, they would surely remember the workers' gesture in accepting a drastic 15% cut in CPF, a 15% cut in their total salary. That 15% cut is 10 times more than the 1.5% restoration this year. Have employers conveniently forgotten the tremendous courage and sacrifice of their employees at a time of need? Have employers forgotten about the painful adjustments that their workers have to make to loan commitments and lifestyles? As it would have happened in other countries, our workers did not take to the streets. Instead they faithfully stood behind the reasons for the cut and helped companies pull out of the recession. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Low, I will allow you one last supplementary question because we have a long list of Questions. 

    Mr Chiam asked whether the line would pass through Potong Pasir constituency. The answer is "yes". But the location of the station has yet to be finalised. MRTC's consultants who carried out the North-East line feasibility study had analysed various possibilities for station locations. On the possibility of having a station at Potong Pasir, this is what they had to say: 

    Straits Times reported Mr Chiam on 27th July 1995 as saying apropos the North-East line that "Any decision has to be made rationally." He is right. It is a $5 billion decision which must be carefully weighed. In deciding when to proceed with the construction of the North-East line and the exact alignment and station locations, the Government will take a broad view and consider other benefits that can be derived from this investment, such as reduced travel time, and an expanded and improved public transport system. The House can expect a firm decision by the end of this year. 

    Sir, in this respect, I just want to correct one point of the hon. Member for Potong Pasir, ie, under the present Bill, the LTA cannot be one of the richest statutory boards in Singapore, because the bulk of the funds from COEs and ARF actually goes to the Ministry of Finance. In fact, the 

  Mr Mah Bow Tan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, first of all, may I thank all Members who have spoken for their support of the Bill, including Mr Chiam. I would like to take some of the points that have been raised by Members, particularly those that have been raised by several Members. First of all, the question of funding for LTA. Mr Heng mentioned this in his speech just now. He has made the point that we should not be stingy with funds for public transport. On that score, I would agree with him. But when he also says that we should give LTA adequate resources to do its job right from the beginning, this is where I have to explain our position. 

 the GST has been made more palatable by the offsets offered by the Government. These offsets enhance the credibility of the PAP, and not otherwise, as stated by Mr Chiam. It is the success of the PAP's economic policy that allows the Government to implement a revenue negative low 3% GST. The promise that the GST will stay at 3% for at least five years or longer is reassuring. However, the Minister may like to clarify whether the increase in retail cost due to GST would be actually 3% or more. This is because there will be, and must be, an administration cost incurred by businesses in the implementation of the GST. Furthermore, the collection of the GST will be "up-front", thus incurring a "cash-flow" or "bank interest" on these moneys. Some retailers have expressed that these administrative costs may amount to something like 2%. Thus, the final cost to the customer may be closer to 5%. Will the Minister please clarify? 

    Yet, all over the developed world, economic growth has always been achieved with growing income inequities. Please refer to Chart 1. You see that in spite of all the efforts over the years, in the three countries (the United States, France and Japan), the top 10% has always earned more than the bottom 10%, and the gap appears to be widening. You look at France from the period, 1978 to about 1984, the gap appears to be constant, and it is not widening. That is because during that period, when France was under the Mitterand years, France was undergoing severe recession. In other words, if we want to close the pay gap, then we would have to suffer the pain of recession. It is clear that income growth and income equity pull in opposite directions. Even Japan cannot escape the malaise of diverging income inequity even though it is, by world standard, the nation with a remarkable degree of economic homogeneity. There is a lesson in these statistics, that is, if we want everybody to grow richer, then some of us will inevitably be richer than others. And I hope that Mr Chiam sends these charts to his Assistant Secretary-General, so that he can take a look at these figures closely. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, it is important, in fact imperative, that we re-focus on the big picture. Singaporeans are worrying about the problems of full employment, things like how much will my bowl of laksa cost or how much will my cup of coffee cost. I think these are problems of the PAP - the Peace and Plenty syndrome. I think under SDP, if unfortunately it becomes SDP, it might be a different story. 

    Sir, the experiences in Australia, New Zealand and Canada are instructive. Some Singaporeans, like Mr Chiam and Mr Low, are still unsure of the benefits of GST. But many Australians, I think, most Australians, appear to embrace it. Dr John Hewson, the opposition leader, has been campaigning on a punitive 15% value-added tax (they also call it GST) if his party were returned to power. The election is this Saturday, 13th March. If we believe the polls, he appears to be within grasp of the prime ministership. 

    So the lesson for us is very clear. GST is a tried and tested tax system that works to encourage investments and create jobs. In all the developed world, not many countries are without an equivalent of the GST. When the rest of the world were taxing factors of production, a lopsided direct income tax was quite adequate. But when our competitors moved into different territories, when they moved into indirect taxation, through consumption, our outmoded tax system puts us at a severe disadvantage. Hence the question for us is not if we should endorse GST. The question is how and when to implement GST? I think the time to implement it is now. Why now? Because employment is full, inflation is low and our reserves healthy. How to implement it should actually be discussed in detail in the Second Reading of the GST Bill. But we have heard quite a lot of it today and I think that most of us welcome the Bill in principle. I want to ask Mr Chiam whether he actually agrees to the GST, in principle. He talks about the GST, he throws out a whole list of queries and he seems quite satisfied, but I am not sure. His only worry seems to be that, after five years, the GST rate might be moved up. 

    On individual income tax, the Government has given an across-the-board one-off rebate of 5% for Year of Assessment 1993. Accompanying the GST, the Government will reduce the percentage of the highest tax bracket by 3% with proportionate reduction in other tax brackets. However, Sir, the proportionate percentage reduction of income tax does not seem to be favouring the lower middle and lower income group, because proportionally they will be entitled to only 1% of reduction. Unlike Mr Low and other Opposition Members here who only 

  hoiyung: What Mr Cheo has just said is indeed very regrettable. Is he speaking for our Singapore workers or is he speaking for the foreign workers? 

  In Mandarin): I would like to ask Mr Cheo this question. First, he said that the word "exploitation" which he used was perhaps too strong a term. But what I want from him are actual examples. Sir, he is unable to give us any single example on how Singapore is exploiting the foreign workers. Secondly, if he thinks that he is speaking for Singapore workers, then let me tell him this: If we allow foreign workers to work in Singapore without controlling their basic wages, then the wages of our Singaporean workers will be pulled down because of them. Singaporean workers will not be able to maintain their basic salary at a certain level. Does he think that by so doing it will be in the interest of the Singaporean workers? Please illustrate. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, with regard to what Mr Cheo and Mr Low have said, I have a few observations to make. 

    Sir, Mr Cheo mentioned that GST is expected to collect $960 million and the Government is giving out $1.2 billion. So there is a deficit here. In the future, if it is not enough, the Government will have to increase the GST rate. But the point really is that if our lowering of corporate tax works, we will continue to have surpluses and his fear will be addressed. But we need to put GST in place because we will never know how low we should reduce 

    Mr Cheo has argued that some countries which have introduced GST have not become competitive. I find that this is a very naive statement. These countries are not competitive not because of the introduction of GST but because they have extensive welfare systems which led to extremely high business cost and therefore they are not competitive. It has nothing whatsoever to do with GST. 

  hoiyung: The debate is over, Mr Low. 

  hoiyung: We have finished the debate, Mr Low. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Ling, would you allow the Minister to clarify? 

  hoiyung: You may continue then, Mr Ling. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: I just want to illustrate that Mr Ling obviously has not read the papers or tried to make himself informed about HDB policies. First of all, he said that an HDB owner cannot sell his flat to anybody except to those who qualify. But the qualification of the eligibility is so widely 

  hoiyung: If Mr Chiam is advocating that a single person should be allowed to buy a 5-room flat, then I think he should bring it up and we can debate that point whether Singapore can afford it. But I did not say "everybody" in Singapore. Sir, I said "almost everybody". In fact, the market is so wide that it should not affect the resale value. 

    Second, in a seafaring economic journey, we must never panic and start to throw our lifeboats overboard unnecessarily. What are our lifeboats? Sir, I am referring to our seemingly huge financial reserves that members of the public, and I think Mr Chiam and Mr Ling have made reference to. Already, I hear and read of Singaporeans wanting us to use our lifeboats. 

    I have no quarrel with the SDP, or anyone else, who argues that we should do more for the poor. That is exactly what the PAP has been doing all these years, is doing, and will continue to do. But I totally oppose the way the SDP seeks to agitate Singaporeans through the politics of envy. The SDP deliberately 

    Mr Chiam and his SDP colleagues are doing this to win votes. If they succeed in pushing the politics of envy, Singapore will go down the drain. The middle class will envy the rich, the upper class. The poor will envy everyone else. The well-off, instead of helping others to succeed, will react by developing a me-first mentality, and seek to enrich themselves at the expense of the rest of society. Our society will be torn apart. 

 closer to 2 million CPF account holders benefiting from this scheme. But if Mr Chiam wishes to opt out, then of courseit is his right. 

  The Prime Minister: That is wrong, Mr Chiam. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Chiam, if you meant it as a compliment, I accept it. The question is whether you would state 

 categorically that you support the scheme. Would you say so, Mr Chiam? 

    This year's Budget Statement is to be and, in fact, has been welcomed by everyone. But first I would like to touch on a point made by the hon. Member for Hougang yesterday. He said that the reduction in corporate tax by 3% is not fair, as it would benefit larger corporations or the MNCs more, and the smaller companies or the SMEs would lose out. Mr Low is a businessman and I am sure a very smart one. Surely he knows that in business the larger the investment the higher the profit is to be expected. But at the same time, it carries a much greater risk. He cannot believe that a neighbourhood shop expects to make the same profit as a supermarket or a large departmental store. I wonder if, instead of tax 

 reduction, the Government decides to increase the tax by 3%, would Mr Low come out to fight for the MNCs because they would have to pay more tax? Perhaps nowadays it is fashionable for the Opposition to engage in the politics of envy by pitting one section of the population against another, and doing the same for the business community. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chng, would you like to give way to Mr Ling? 

 that we must answer. It is not to compare that because it is 3% in Singapore, it will be easier to swallow than Australia's 15%. Do you want 11% unemployment today? Three years of no economic growth and many more years to come? About five or six years ago, the Australian dollar was worth about S$2. Today, if you go to Australia, you pay the most A$1 to S$1. If I am not mistaken, today, the rate of an Australian dollar to one Singapore dollar is about $1.10. Why is this so? These are economics. I would suggest, perhaps, my colleague, Mr Koo Tsai Kee, or Dr Ow Chin Hock, give Mr Ling some basic grounding in economics. 

    The need for this structural change is so compelling, contrary to what Mr Ling has said. I think it should have been done long ago. We have been able to wait to take such a protracted approach only because our economy is very strong. In my various discussions with grassroots leaders and residents, there is a general acceptance that these measures are at the moment quite acceptable to them. Despite what Mr Ling has said, the response from the Opposition bench is rather muted on this issue. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has expressed the view that we need not cut our corporate tax rates because we have sufficient tax incentives already to attract foreign investment. If he is referring to pioneer-type incentives, then I would remind him that these are only given for a limited period of time to attract new and specialised investments, and are not 

    Mr Chiam has said that the Singapore Government in the 1960s opposed the introduction of turnover tax by the then Federal government. He has conveniently failed to point out the high rates at which incomes were then taxed in the Federation. Personal income tax rates were as high as 50%, while tax on corporations was 40%. Obviously, the imposition of a turnover tax posed a further burden on individuals. As the turnover tax was a tax on tax and with cascading effects, it discriminates in favour of large firms which can do many stages of production in-house. For these reasons, the government at that time opposed the introduction of the turnover tax. 

 Singapore, we are introducing the GST as part of our restructuring to lower personal income and corporate taxes. It is not done for revenue reasons. Our package of offsets is proof of this. The majority of households will be better off after GST. Unlike a turnover tax, the GST does not cause cascading. This is because businesses are able to get a refund of the GST paid against the GST collected. There is obviously no basis for Mr Chiam's comparison. 

  The Chairman: Order. It is ``guillotine'' time. Mr Low, do you want to withdraw your amendment? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. Dr Lau Teik Soon. 

  hoiyung: Yes, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I think you are not following the proceedings carefully. We are going amendment by amendment, and that amendment has already used up the time allotted for it. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Hougang has asked whether Mindef has any safeguard in its military procurement procedures. 

  The Chairman: Mr Low, would you like to withdraw your amendment? We are approaching "guillotine" time already. 