  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, no pig farmers in Punggol have been dispossessed of their farms. So the questions raised by the Member for Anson are irrelevant. Despite this, I shall take advantage of this occasion to explain Government's present thinking on pig farming. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson is a lawyer by profession and he believes that, I assume correctly, from the legal point of view, that a notice to quit means action will be taken. I did say that the notices to the TOL pig farms were served on the farmers on 8th April 1983 which was nearly a year ago and up to now no action has been taken to ask them to quit. Even if the intention of Government to close down all these farms was carried out, time would be given to these farmers to adjust to the new situation. 

    Second, Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not really see any usefulness in going into the details because the Member for Anson, quite obviously, in pursuing these tedious questions over two years has the objective of casting a slur or smear that there has been a cover-up and he has tried to create a myth, an impression, that only when he asks a Question that the Government begins to take action on this matter. So for the record, we should make it clear that long before he set foot in this Chamber and long before he espoused any interest on this subject, the Government has taken action to investigate, apprehend and prosecute the wrongdoers. And that record has to be emphasized to rebut the objective of his Question. 

    The Member for Anson likes to bring up the point about workers' contribution. He repeatedly asked our Minister for Trade and Industry to include this in his Budget Statement. Sir, it is to be expected that the Member for Anson is more concerned about form rather than substance. What is the point of having an acknowledgement or a few sentences in the Budget Statement on workers' contribution if our workers have no jobs? What we should be concerned about is the substance, ie, to achieve a high GDP growth, to make our 

 GDP pie bigger and bigger over the years and also ensure that our workers have a fair share of the fruits of our economic development. This is exactly what this PAP Government has been doing over the last 25 years, long before the Member for Anson came in here. We do not need him to tell us what to do. 

    Finally, Mr Speaker, Sir, this Budget does not impose any sacrifices on the ordinary working man. Yet, the Budget has been labelled by the Member for Anson as 

    Sir, apart from these observations which I have made, I have no other critical remarks to make on the Budget proposals and I support the Motion. Before I sit down, however, I should say a few words apropos the amazing propositions about the requirements of parliamentary democracy advanced in this House by the hon. Member for Anson on the 2nd of March. 

    The record of the Workers' Party in supporting parliamentary democratic norms and traditions has not been an unsullied one, to say the least. Its role in the politics of Singapore has been that of a maverick and its present-day reincarnation in the shape of the hon. Member for Anson has only added to the confusion. 

  hoiyung: Thank you very much, Sir. It is a fairly important point which the Member for Anson - 

    The Workers' Party is desperately in search of a cause in a Singapore where all the serious causes are already being dealt with by the PAP. So it must have been an act of frustration for the Member for Anson to have virtually asked PAP Members of Parliament to turn against the Government, and he quoted passages from the published opinions of Lord Hailsham and Sir Ivor Jennings. As the quotations, in the manner in which they were presented to this House, did not ring quite true, I decided to look up Ivor Jennings' book on Cabinet Government and discovered some pearls, which I should share with hon. Members. Contrary to what the hon. Member for Anson had asserted - 

    Perhaps I should spend the last few minutes, Mr Speaker, Sir, in dealing with the comments of the Member for Anson. He has spoken a great deal but basically his message is still the same - that the policy of the Singapore Government is to take from the poor to give to the rich. It is the same refrain which he has spoken last year, the same refrain this year and therefore I shall distribute the same schedule (Cols. 885 - 886) again this year. [Copies distributed to Members.] 

    This is a tangible result which Singaporeans can look forward to under the economic policies which we have pursued, not a brief extravaganza of mindless, irrational spending financed by borrowings from outside the country which must end in a severe hangover, with no prospect for recovery. Is this what the Member for Anson is advocating? I am convinced that surely in spite of his grand standing and his long speeches, he must know in his heart that he is wrong and we are right. Perhaps one day he will admit it. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has the wrong concept of the Income of Singaporeans. I will give him statistics of the income of the 16,000 applicants on the waiting list. Those who have applied for one-room flats, have an average income of $473 per month. For those who have applied for two-room flats, it is $518 and for three-room flats, it is $603. All these applicants are in the position to purchase flats. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the hon. Member for Anson has got it all mixed up. He cannot use his CPF money for anything else other than for the purchase of HDB flat. Buying an HDB flat is a good investment. If he purchases a three-room HDB flat now, as time goes on the value of the HDB flat will appreciate. If the hon. Member has read the advertisements today in the Straits Times or asks his Party members to look up the Chinese newspapers, he will see the selling prices. After five years' occupation of an HDB flat, a person can sell his HDB fiat and make a handsome profit. So by purchasing an HDB flat, he does not only have a home, a nice home in a nice estate, but also a good investment. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the National University of Singapore cuts down trees when they are old, brittle or unsightly. The NUS also plants new trees and shrubs when necessary. All this is part of a continuing process to upgrade and improve the environment and landscape of the campus grounds and not, as implied by the Member for Anson's question, a special effort to beautify the grounds for the Prime Minister's visit. 

  Mr Speaker: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if I understand the Member for Anson, he has, from my responsibilities for coordinating Ministries, gone on to recite the instance of his constituent who is a permanent resident, whose wife had gone back to Malaysia leaving behind one ailing son, who was permitted to remain behind for compassionate reasons or whatever, in some home in Sembawang, but that permission was refused after six months and he does not know why. And he also cited that, in fact, if we were an enlightened government running enlightened policies, not only would we have a file which would be open to his constituent who is a permanent resident, but we would also introduce a Freedom of Information Act to allow all and sundry to have access to their files. 

 sion, and the attention of the Member for Anson, should be grateful that we have allowed him to stay in Singapore and to continue working in Singapore. We are under no obligation to keep him here or to give him a job, let alone keep a file on him or his son in order that it would be available to him or the son if we decide for, I am sure, good and valid reasons. And he would be given good and valid reasons, if he were to direct it to the appropriate Minister, why the son's permission to stay here was revoked. 

    The Member for Anson is a glutton for punishment. When he first came into this House, there was a slight air of the under-dog's status. After 21 years, there is a lot of mange on the dog. I do not want to beat mangy dogs, nor do I want to get near them. The answer has been provided to the House by the Member himself. He is in full possession of the facts. I assume that this is like all the millions of other cases that he tells us he has and, obviously as a good Member of Parliament and as a good lawyer, he must have brought his strongest case forth. I expected an earth-shattering event - some misdemeanour, some misjudgment, some blunder, some outrageous act of incompetence on the part of one of my colleagues. 

 to Singapore, then we give him that citizenship as a matter of privilege. There are hundreds of thousands of people who want the privilege of just coming to Singapore to work, and having got here and got work they want permanent residence. And having got permanent residence they want citizenship. That is exactly the way the Member for Anson got into Singapore. He came in first as a Malayan citizen. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson is a lawyer. He has argued, I hope with some conviction, that under Article 49 of the Constitution we are beholden to hold an election within a reasonable time and, in his view, five months is more than a reasonable time. My answer to him is very simple. Take out a Writ of Mandamus. That 

 is an action open to the Member. If he believes in his interpretation of the Constitution and that the Government is at fault, there are proper procedures to compel the Government to observe the Constitution. Nobody can accuse the Member for Anson for lack of bravado or braggadocio In taking out actions in court. He issues writs like lightning in a thunderstorm. Where it strikes, whether it hurts his friends or himself, is another matter. But he does not lack bravado. Take out a writ. I have been advised as to the law. In fact, I amended the law when we left Malaysia to make sure that the law was as it used to be before we joined Malaysia. I will abide by any ruling of the court on the interpretation of Article 49, not the Member's presentation in this House. 

 that system is run. Nobody doubts that the Member for Anson won the last by-election honestly, and nobody doubts that if we were dishonest we could have fixed him. But that is not the way we run this Government. 

  hoiyung: They were gazetted before the elections and we complied with it. Does anybody in his right mind believe that the candidate lost because he was suddenly told that he could not paste his poster on the wall, that he had to have a cardboard to hang it up on? If the groundswell is with you, the groundswell is with you. And I have given the Member for Anson ample notice that there would be 75 seats vacant. 

  hoiyung: I have been long accustomed to bold words, and I made an announcement in measured tones, giving ample notice, not just to the Member for Anson but to all those who wish to contest, that there will be a general election within less than the two years that is left. 

  The Chairman: Your time is up, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as expected, the Member for Anson has found nothing right with the Ministry of Education. But I think we should give credit where credit is due. And many Members would join with me to congratulate the Ministry of Education for the efficient, calm and calculated manner with which they have tackled so many problems. For example, over the years no one can quarrel that our children have become more educated than before, that they are being provided with more advanced and sophisticated facilities. Singaporeans who have been educated have been able to find jobs to their satisfaction. Of course, there are problems which have yet to be resolved, and I am sure that the Ministry can tackle these problems in the same efficient manner as they have tackled previous problems. 

    Sir, I would now like to turn my attention to the remarks made by the Member for Anson before I touch on the points raised by a number of Members concerning the priority for registration scheme. The Member for Anson said that "the Ministry of Education is a singular failure." Those were the words he used. Let me tell him that every year several thousand foreign students want to get into our schools and they are prepared to pay between $6,000 and $10,000 as a levy for the privilege of coming to study in schools in Singapore. I think he should ask them whether they think our education system is a singular failure or not. 

    Over the past few years, as a result of the new education policy, there has been a reduction in the drop-out rates in the primary schools of between four and five times and in secondary schools there has been a reduction of about four times in the drop-out rates. If you take the figures in absolute terms, 13,000 students have been saved each year from becoming drop-outs. I would suggest to the Member for Anson to ask them whether the education system is a singular failure. 

  The Chairman: Your time is up, hoiyung: Sir, a lot has been said about this subject yesterday even before the Member stood up to speak. The opinions, he quotes from various articles, are familiar to us. There will always be people who will level accusations, who will be very free with their opinions, who do not have to live in the country against which their opinions are directed. Furthermore, there will be people like that, including the Member for Anson, who do not have to 

 take responsibility for the future direction of Singapore and how our country is to develop and to provide a better life for all its people. And such people, as the Member for Anson has done, are more than willing to make such remarks and at the same time quietly choose to send their own children to the best schools they can find; in the case of the Member for Anson, to British public schools because Singapore schools were not considered good enough for them. So they have two standards - a standard for themselves, a private standard which is convenient, which is within their means, and a public standard which is something else. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not know how the Member for Anson can say that we have not come to grips with the problem. We have come to grips with the problem. We have proposed a new scheme and, as the First Deputy Prime Minister said yesterday, it may be necessary to have other measures to encourage the restoration of this balance in our population growth. As far as the Constitution is concerned, I do not think it is a matter for debate in this House. I do not think it is a matter to be settled by debate here in this House as the Member, who is a lawyer, should know. It is a matter for the High Court to decide. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has pointed out that there are two international conventions, which is the case. However, in our approach to reviewing the law of copyright, we cannot approach it on a piecemeal basis. We have to approach the question of copyright in its entirety, for there will be far-reaching consequences. One of the matters before the Committee, which the Minister has appointed, will be which of these two international conventions should Singapore adhere to, whether we should adhere to them, and what will be the obligations and rights that will ensue from adhering to these conventions. But as I said, the question of copyright has many facets, and the adhering to an international convention is only one of the many facets which the Government is considering. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, there are requirements under the broad heads, but each case will have to be considered on its own merits. This is why, in my answer, I have set out the broad policy, for that is what the Member for Anson has asked - to set out the policy of our Ministry - and I have so set out. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is a fact known not only in Singapore but elsewhere that we have a full employment situation. And because we have a labour shortage, it is necessary to import large numbers of foreign workers. I see no reason in giving him any information more than what I have already supplied. What every Singaporean needs to know is that there is a large number of foreign workers, 150,000, and we have to have them temporarily. But in the long-term economic and social interest, they will have to be phased out. The Government will phase them out. But while they are here, the Government will take strong measures to ensure that they do not sink roots here, whether or not the Member for Anson takes up cases for them for extensions and marriage restrictions or advances exceptions to policy and special circumstances for foreign workers to sink roots here. He may advance the cause of foreign workers but we as a Government have to be firm. 

  hoiyung: It may interest the Member for Anson to know this ruling. It is from Erskine May's Parliamentary Practice and it states: 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have heard a tirade from the Member for Anson and it all consists of smears. Is there any evidence? If he has any evidence that the Police have been acting slavishly under a political directive in the enforcement of the law, he should bring it up now, give instances, and not make insinuations. 

    He says that the Workers' Party has been harassed by Police officers under political instructions. Has he got any shred of evidence to prove it? If he has, please bring it up here. They are just doing their duty. The whole world knows that the Member for Anson has been charged for defrauding creditors and he has been convicted. Is he saying that the court also had directives? 

    This is again a smear on the Police officers who have no opportunity or avenue to answer the Member. I think it is atrocious behaviour on the part of the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: With regard to the application by the Member or through his Chairman, Mr Wong Hong Toy, to hold the lantern procession, it was granted but he should have studied the permit which granted him permission to hold the lantern procession. In the permit it is quite clearly stated that one of the conditions is that permission has to be obtained from the HDB authority for the use of void decks, car parks, public areas and gardens which come under the jurisdiction of HDB. The Police reported that there was evidence that the Workers' Party lantern procession 

 assembled in an open space outside the Member for Anson's office without obtaining the permission of the HDB, Do you deny that you did not obtain the permission of the HDB? And he appears to be a law-abiding underdog type of MP - 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Well, I would not call him that. And yet he says that he has not breached this condition; and for that he is protesting that he should have been warned. Sir, that incident, far from indicating that the Police have been biased in the enforcement of the law, they have been very even-handed. Not only have they given a warning to the person who through ignorance organized a function without a permit; but they have also warned that they could also prosecute the Workers' Party for their default in keeping up with the conditions of the permit. They could have prosecuted the Workers' Party. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Sir, I am indebted to the Member for Anson when he said that, unwittingly he has admitted that he had no permission from the HDB to use the frontage, the open space, to assemble the procession. As a lawyer he should know that he has committed a breach of the condition. It is he who should tell me or the House whether he has got a permit to do so. And he says, "where can we assemble the children or the supporters for the procession?" If you want to have them assembled or gathered in front of somebody else's open space, surely, as a lawyer, he should know that he should ask for permission. It is not for me to tell him whether the HDB has complained. It is for him, who has committed a breach of the condition to tell us whether he has obtained the permission from the HDB to use the place to assemble. He is a lawyer, he should know better. 

    If I may now move on to the points made by the Member for Anson. Really, Sir, I do not know whether to be disappointed or to be amused or elated. Like other Ministers, we prepare for the Budget debate and we wonder what each Member is going to raise. So before coming to today's debate on Immigration, I had asked myself what possible points he may raise, and I thought he might raise this question of denial of passports. Judging by the tone of his letters - I have his letter here, 19th January, 1984 - and lo and behold, this is exactly what the Member for Anson has raised, predictable. 

    A Written Answer was given to the Member for Anson on 31st August 1982, and the question he posed was: 

  hoiyung: Sir, we could go on and on but I completely reject the proposition put forward by the Member for Anson that there is an inalienable international law or natural law right which binds a government to give, without any question or reservation, a passport to every citizen. I have demonstrated from the figures that an overwhelming majority of passport applications were granted. The question is: If Government had grounds to investigate any particular case . . . and I am not going to be drawn into giving details of investigation in any particular case, whether it is this or any other, it would be foolhardy for any government or, for any law enforcement agency to give away the cards. This is the basic rule of law enforcement. You do not supply the other side with information on a person whose possible criminal wrongdoings are being investigated. I thought it is so elementary that any school student reading detective stories should know about this. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson just does not listen, as on other occasions. I have stated clearly that I am not going to be drawn into giving details of any investigation of any particular case. I painted two scenarios so that the Member, if he was interested to know the kind of situations where passports may need to be denied, he can be enlightened with those examples. Of course, it appears that he does not choose to be enlightened. 

  Mr Rohan bin Kamis: Sir, in view of the clarification and the firm assurance given by the Minister, and I am sure the Member for Anson is not achieving any more productivity except for publicity, I beg leave to withdraw my amendment. 

    As regards the case, if it is the case referred to by the Member for Anson, yes, he has written us letters. This letter demonstrates the kind of approach which we must not adopt in granting citizenship. Let me quote from the letter that the Member for Anson has written. If it is not the letter, then I stand corrected. 

  hoiyung: It was in 1973 when we made the first revision. I cannot remember the figures because I do not claim to be able to keep all the figures in my head. But the prevailing rates, in case the Member for Anson does not know, are: $60 for a single-person household; $80 for a two-person household; $100 for a three-person household; and $120 for a four-person household. 

  hoiyung: Sir, can the Member for Anson give me specific instances to prove that there had been a downward revision? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, with your permission, I do not intend to answer the question raised by the Member for Anson today because a similar question has been raised by the hon. Member for Punggol, and I will be answering it tomorrow. 

    Notwithstanding the presence of an opposition in this House, the Hon. Minister would no doubt be receiving overwhelming support from hon. Members, for even the hon. Member for Anson was seen to be applauding him at the end of his lengthy Budget Statement some 10 days ago. 

 500% between the end of 1979 and June 1981. And, contrary to what the Economic Survey reported, property prices did not fall considerably in the latter half of 1981. Such prices were and are still 350-400% higher than in 1979. As I warned in the debate on the Presidential Address in this House in February last year, the inflation in private property prices inevitably affected HUDC and HDB prices by escalating land and construction costs. And sure enough, barely six months later, both of these agencies raised their prices. I might add, Sir, that one additional undesirable sideeffect of the property market boom was the election of the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, in view of the fact that it is the Member for Anson's maiden speech on the Budget Statement, can you not allow him to continue if he has anything more to say? 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock (Ayer Rajah): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Hon. Minister for Trade and Industry has presented a "breather budget" to quote the Straits Times of 6th March 1982. It further reported that while cautioning the economic dangers facing the Republic, he still had some good cheer to spread around. Very few can quarrel with this budget. Nevertheless, I would like this House to share with me and, in particular, the Member for Anson, a few observations on how the various tax concessions were asked and fought for by my caring senior MPs and perhaps drive home the point that this Government did not start caring from 1976 but as early as 1959. 

    Of course, the Member for Anson at that time in 1978 was among the first to shower the Minister for Finance with praises saying [col. 652]: 

  Encik Mansor Haji Sukaimi (Kampong Kembangan): Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not understand why the Member for Anson is so unashamed as to claim credit when it is not due to him. I say this not with malice or ridicule because I have respect for the man. After all, he is an honourable Member of this House. I say this because I think it is necessary for us to know that this debate is a serious matter and if there should be any criticism of the Government, I think all of us have to play a role, and I will be one of the first Backbenchers to point any mistake or deficiency of Government in the interest of the people of Singapore. But when we do this, let us do it with some very basic principles. 

    As my colleague, the Member for Ayer Rajah, has said, the concept of a caring society is not a new concept. It did not originate in 1976. It went back, I think, earlier than 1959, even to 1954. We knew from the start that the political parties in Singapore would never be a credible movement until and unless we care for the people, we care for their problems, and not only care but work for it to create the means to bring about what the hon. Member for Anson referred to as getting Singaporeans to have happier and fuller lives and to help them to develop their potentials to the maximum. 

    Even on this point, he seems to suggest that all the while we have ignored this fundamental responsibility of politicians to their constituents. Why do we improve our universities? Why do we spend so much money on schools and industrial training institutions? Why do we make an unpopular decision to get employers to contribute towards the Skills Development Fund? Is it not because we have recognized the need to develop Singaporeans' potentials? If the hon. Member for Anson finds any deficiency in the Government's policies on 

    But let us do it with a clear understanding that our job here is an honourable task and we must do so with full facts. And if the hon. Member for Anson disagrees with the policies of Government, and I do not think he has been thorough with his arguments - I noted that he raised only 13 or 14 points - if he really has reasons, he must come out with alternative programmes. Tell the people of Singapore why and how the Workers Party can be better than the PAP, and I think Singaporeans deserve better programmes if there are good reasons. 

  Mr Speaker: Encik Mansor, may I remind you that this is a debate on the financial policy of the Government and not on the Member for Anson? 

  Encik Mansor Haji Sukaimi: If the hon. Member for Anson has a better programme than the Hon. Minister for Trade and Industry, I think he should present it to this House and let us consider it together. 

  Encik Mansor Haji Sukaimi: My due respect to you, Mr Speaker, Sir. Let me come to the debate on the Budget. We have heard many arguments from the Backbenchers. In fact, we owe a lot to the hon. Member for Whampoa for raising many good points, and if you will allow me, Sir, to reiterate this point - if the hon. Member for Anson really has good points, I think he should bring them up for discussion together. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyungasked about the question of giving our workers an equity in the companies that they work for. Is it not time we thought of a scheme linking workers' pay directly to the productivity and profitability of the enterprises they work for? This could be done, Mr Speaker, Sir, by linking yearly bonus to a fixed percentage of total current cost profits, as defined by standard accounting conventions. It should also be possible for workers to participate directly in the ownership of the companies they work for. This could be done through distribution of bonuses for long serving employees in the form of equity. Tax incentives could be given to private sector companies to encourage them to do this. In addition, part of the employers' CPF contributions might take the form of equity in the companies themselves. It will be best if public sector enterprises took the lead in this direction. We in the Workers' Party hope eventually to see the employees of public 

    Industries today complain about our strong Singapore dollar and high overheads. A strong and stable currency, as we all know, has both advantages and disadvantages. But certainly a strong and stable currency is much preferred over a weak and unstable currency. Our Government, however, will continue to ensure that our traders and export-oriented manufacturing firms are not handicapped by an overvalued Singapore dollar. As for overhead costs, such as land, factory premises, utilities, wages, skill development fund, and property taxes, etc., I am glad that our Government is now doing its best to moderate such increases. In fact, with the present economic downturn such increases, if any, should be minimal. Here, I am in agreement with the Member for Anson that statutory boards need to assist our manufacturers. The Jurong Town Corporation, for example, needs to rethink about its intended upward revision of up to 50% of industrial land rentals applicable this year. Likewise, the tariffs on utility charges should be reduced proportionately in view of the reduced fuel price. As for Skills Development Fund, I agree with the hon. Member for Chong Boon that it is a heavy cost burden for our manufacturers. Since only 8.8% (or $27.5 million) of the total contribution of $313.8 million had been disbursed as at 31st December, 1982, it would appear that at the present rate of disbursement and contribution, the interest accrued will be adequate to meet the current disbursements. It is perhaps timely, under the present economic environment, to review the necessity to maintain the current rate of contribution. 

    I will turn now to the comments of the Member for Anson. He has spoken, according to my watch, for 60 minutes but has said nothing that is new or relevant but a lot that is confusing. Indeed his speech seems to be a hotch potch of unrelated ideas, and I really think that he should confine himself to speaking on subjects with which he is familiar. 

  Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: The Member for Anson has also suggested that the Government should provide workers with homes within their work places. This is a new concept of worker benefit which I am not familiar with. 

Abbas Abu Amin                   Jeyaretnam, J.B

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it looks like Ministers have to read the mind of the Member for Anson. If he wants us to take him seriously we must assume that he means what he says. If he asks a question about "professional visit passes", we must assume, by any reasonable construction, that he means professional visit passes. If he wants to ask a separate question on employment passes, 

  The Minister for National Development (Mr Teh Cheang Wan): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to answer the Member for Anson first. The Member for Anson has asked the question whether Government accepts the responsibility to house the people affected by resettlement. My answer is that Government accepts the 

    The other rules are very simple. If a person is not a Singapore citizen, he may be a work permit holder. If he also gate-crashes and goes into that resettlement area, of course, the resettlement people will know that he is around. The Member for Anson is requesting that the Government should take responsibility to house these people. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson said at the beginning that the Government should accept the responsibility to rehouse all the people in the resettled area. He put forward that proposition. I explained to him why his proposal cannot be accepted by Government. If his proposal is accepted, then Government would have to rehouse the work permit holders, the illegal immigrants and everybody else because he has not made any qualifications. He mentioned that anybody who has been found at the site of the resettlement, Government should accept the responsibility. Am I correct in saying that? 

    As regards the rental flats, I would like to clarify this position on the rental flats, which was also raised by the hon. Member for Anson. HDB is stopping the building of flats for rental, for the simple reason that there is a constant upward movement of the tenants living in 1 -, 2- and 3-room HDB flats. As these tenants move upwards to bigger flats, the vacated flats are sufficient to meet the demand of the applicants. So in the last few years the HDB has not built flats for rental because there is no need for that. Lately, however, because of the improvement in incomes, the income of the people who are applying to rent 3-room flats is relatively high. They are earning more than $600 a month. Usually, those who apply to rent the 3-room flats are earning between $600 and $800 a month. With this income they are in a position to purchase a 3-room flat. 

 reach of the people, with the exception of a very small minority of the very low income group. I do not wish to repeat the statistics again because a few days ago I have given the hon. Member for Anson the statistics. The point is quite clear: the majority of Singaporeans can afford to buy flats, even among those who prefer to rent them. A few weeks ago I have shown that among those tenants who rent HDB flats, almost 10,000 of them own motor cars. A person who can afford a motor car certainly is in a position to buy an HDB flat. But they prefer to own a motor car and live in an HDB rental flat rather than buy a flat. But the Government's policy is to encourage them to own their own homes because it is good for their families to own the flat. 

    I wish to assure the House, particularly the Member for Anson, that the lowest income group has always been very well looked after by the Government. As a demonstration, let us just take the rental charges of the 1-room improved flats. These are for Singaporeans in the lowest income group. When we built these 1-room improved flats in Toa Payoh and in Queenstown in the late 1960s, that is, about 20 years ago, the monthly rental for such a flat was $30. This comprised $23.50 for basic rental and $6.50 for the service and conservancy charges. In other words, total rental was $30 at that time, that is, 15 to 20 years ago. Today the monthly rental for the same flat is $40, of which $26 is for rental. In other words, over so many years we have increased the rental by $2.50 only. The balance of $14 is for conservancy charges. Even though the conservancy charges have been increased from $6.50 to $14, it is still not sufficient to pay for the increase in labour cost because in the last few years the income of Singaporeans has increased considerably and the wages for cleansing workers have increased three to four times. So the rental increase for this lower income group is $10 over a span of 15 to 20 years. 

    The Member for Anson raised several points. One is on the rental flats. He said that one of his constituents who was below 21 years old wanted to register to rent an HDB flat but was not permitted to do so. As we all know, for the HDB flats, there is a tenancy agreement signed between HDB and the tenants. I am not a lawyer. The Member for Anson is a lawyer. I was told by the legal officer that under the law in Singapore anybody below the age of 21 years cannot legally sign the tenancy agreement. He is a lawyer but I am not. Maybe I am wrong, I do not know. But if he is wrong, I will be very surprised. 

 On the Member for Anson's question, in HDB there is a tenancy agreement signed by the HDB and the tenants. So no other people can sign on behalf of the tenants. The suggestion by the hon. Member that the father or someone else can sign on behalf of a tenant is not practical. 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson is once again playing the same old tune, i.e. harping on the HDB accounting system. The change of the HDB's accounting system is progressing smoothly. A steering committee is overseeing the progress. The committee comprises the Auditor-General, the Accountant-General, the Chief Executive Officer of the HDB and representatives from the Ministries of National Development and Finance. In April 1983, the steering committee appointed Price Waterhouse from among five reputable accounting firms to design a fully integrated and computerized accounting system. As the HDB is operating on an enormous budget and its activities are becoming increasingly complex and 

    The Member for Anson is talking about the Companies Act and the HDB is flouting the law. I would like again to say that he is a lawyer and I am not a lawyer. I am advised that HDB being a statutory board is not governed by the Companies Act. However, even assuming that HDB prepares its accounts according to the Companies Act, it would not be necessary for HDs to consolidate its profits from MND Holdings in its accounts. This is because HDB does not hold more than half of the issued share capital of MND Holdings. It holds only 49.9%. And under the Companies Act, HDB does not have to consolidate the accounts. Unless I am wrong, I am afraid that the statement made by the Member for Anson is incorrect under the Companies Act. 

    I would like perhaps to add my own observation since the hon. Member has made so many observations on the HDB's accounting system. I would like to add that from reports in the press, I have the impression that the Member for Anson is not exactly an expert on accounting. If he knows anything at all about accounts and financial statements, his Party would not be in the state it is today, i.e. it is on the verge of bankruptcy and on its knees begging for funds. 

  hoiyung: As expected, the Member for Anson is not aware of the purpose why MND Holdings has been set up. When I explained it in the House last year, I think either he has forgotten or he just simply refused to listen. I have explained the purpose of having MND Holdings. MND is a company specially set up to manufacture building materials, run a quarry and to modernize the construction industry. The Member has seen some big lorries. This is an indication because previously the transportation of building materials was done by very small lorries which required a lot of drivers. MND is taking the lead by purchasing a fleet of big lorries thereby reducing the need for a large number of lorries and this has achieved three purposes on just that point alone. One, you require fewer lorry drivers to drive the lorries to carry the same 

 amount of materials. Two, you require fewer lorries to carry the same amount of materials because if you are considering using a three-ton lorry or a 15-ton lorry, obviously you can see that the 15-ton lorry is carrying five times more building materials than a three-ton lorry. So the transportation cost will be lower. The third purpose is that it will reduce traffic congestion because we do not want too many lorries on the road. And I can go on and on relating what MND is doing. MND is trying to modernize, to industrialize the building industry, and therefore the money invested in MND is for the benefit of the building industry. I hope this time the Member for Anson will listen and will not repeat the broken old record again. 

    So we will not change the policy of allocating flats to teenagers because pan of the Government's policy is not to encourage teenage marriage. Maybe the Member for Anson has a different opinion. But this is Government's policy. 

    On his second point about the two brothers,I would suggest that the Member for Anson advise these two brothers to see their MP and I am quite sure the MP will write to the HDB which will look into their case. All the Members of Parliament on this side of the House, ie the 74 PAP Members of Parliament, will definitely write on behalf of their constituents. 

  hoiyung: I think the more we talk with the Member for Anson, the more he is getting confused. 

    The defence of the country not only requires manpower resources but also modern and sophisticated military hardware. As such, I hope that the Defence Ministry will strive to ensure that the weaponry that we use are the most effective in keeping with scientific and technological advances. I am sure we possess the wherewithal to purchase the most up-to-date weapons although they may cost millions of dollars, And I am sure every member of the society is prepared to make material or monetary contributions to support the Government to acquire modern military paraphernalia which are really needed in this age of science and technology. I give my wholehearted support to the Defence Ministry to purchase such equipment like the E-2C or the Hawkeye so as to enable us to constantly confront any would-be aggressor or from wherever our enemy may come to destroy our nation and people. There is no necessity for us to determine who our enemies are, as suggested by the Member for Anson just now. What is most important to deter war is for us to always be prepared to go into battle, small though our country may be. 

    Where leadership is concerned, the old order is changing, giving place to the new. I respect and admire the new, Sir. But I would like to say a few words about the elder leadership, and this includes such people as the Member for Anson, who has always, in my mind, been a sort of Minister without Portfolio or Minister for Revolutionary Evolution, or something like that. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, in closing, I think it is necessary for me to draw the attention of the House to a matter concerning certain information which was given to a foreign newspaper, the International Herald Tribune, published on 15th March, 1982. Members will recall that the Minister for Home Affairs had supplied a written answer to the Question for Written Answer by the Member for Anson concerning persons under preventive detention. This was tabled in this House on 3rd March, 1982. Subsequently, on 3rd March, an Oral Answer was given here to the question by the Member for Delta on whether preventive detention for secret society gangsters and drug traffickers was meeting its objective, and now we have another question. 

    May I refer, Mr Speaker, Sir; to this article which appeared in the Intemational Herald Tribune where the Member for Anson is quoted as follows: 

Mr Speaker, Sir, I want to emphasize the statement, "there are 5,000 people detained in Singapore." Now, perhaps the Member for Anson could clarify his arithmetical skills. From the information that the Ministry has already supplied to this House - there are 17 people detained under the Internal Security Act, 1,019 detained under Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act for secret society activities and drug trafficking, which comes to no more than 1,036. Yet the Member for Anson has alleged in an overseas publication that 5,000 people are detained here. Let us leave out the mental patients. But what baffles my imagination is that, before the answer to the question was given, he had already worked out a figure which is far from the truth, Perhaps he has lumped in, for good measure, the drug addicts 

    The third reason why it is important to have a medical examination, and why a medical examination is indeed ordered, is that through a medical examination, properly trained specialized doctors can observe withdrawal symptoms, which are indicative of drug addiction. For these reasons, it is possible that a person may ,have a urine test with a negative result. But that does not mean that he is not a drug addict. Indeed, if it has passed the six-day period or if he is on a drug which is not traceable in a urine test, but the medical examination shows that he is indeed exhibiting symptoms of drug addiction, the law has provided, and quite properly so, that he should be sent for treatment. That answers the question by the Member for Anson. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I answer to the substance of the question, let me answer the innuendo that is hidden in the question, namely, to raise shades of innocent persons being sent to detention. Let me disabuse the Member for Anson of this innuendo. 

    In addition, let me point out that the Member for Anson is wrong again on his understanding of the facts. There is not just one doctor. There are two full-time doctors. Furthermore, I do not think he listened to me when I -pointed out the safeguards. I said that there are review committees which meet every six months to review the cases. And the chairmen of these review committees are medical practitioners. 

  The Minister of State of Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I have the opportunity to ask a supplementary question but I want to direct the question at the Member for Anson. Yesterday in this House, he spoke about our rugged society and went on to sneer about the ragged society, casting a slur on the people of Singapore. Now we hear that he has reported or alleged to have reported to an international newspaper that there are 5,000 detainees in Singapore and that the people of Singapore are starving. I think he owes us and the people of Singapore an apology. Will he apologize publicly to the people of Singapore? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think we have a problem. It is not so much an inability or an inadequacy of my answer, but I think it is an unwillingness on the part of the Member for Anson to accept an answer which somehow does not tally with his predetermined intentions of tallying information with his figures. Perhaps we can sympathize with him. 

    Furthermore, there is no doubt that here we have to challenge the professional competence of the medical doctors. I for one and the Ministry have no reason to suspect the integrity or the professional competence of either of the two medical practitioners. If the Member for Anson has a solid reason or evidence which casts serious doubts in any one particular case on the professional competence or the personal integrity of either of these two doctors to warrant the kind of investigation which must follow, then let him say so and let him supply us with the particulars. 

  The Minister of State of Defence (Dr Yeo Ning Hong): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I ask the Minister if he is aware of any relationship between the Member for Anson and this particular individual whom he is championing? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: I thought I have made myself clear, Mr Speaker, that this is a case which has resulted in detention on very special and unusual circumstances. I myself cannot see how the Member for Anson wants me to give a categorical decision now as to whether this person is going to be released tomorrow or the day after, for that would spell a lesson for everybody else who is 9 potential violator of our immigration laws. Some people might think: "Well, four years' detention, OK. Five years' detention, it might be worth while living in Singapore for the rest of our life." I am certainly not going to indicate in this House that we are going to release a person who has violated the immigration laws after X number of years. I think it will be contrary to our national interest to do so. 

    I will be surprised if the Member for Anson presses the Government for an answer on this case for he, in fact, would be encouraging all those who are thinking of violating our immigration laws to make a mathematical calculation, probably more accurate than he, that it might be worth while for them to violate our laws. 

    Nevertheless, applicants must satisfy certain conditions to qualify for public housing. For example, some families consisting entirely of citizens are not eligible simply because their household income exceeds the qualifying ceiling. Why does not the Member for Anson champion these people? Another example. The HDB maintains a blacklist of applicants who have been disqualified from applying for HDB flats for various reasons, for example, if they had misused their flats as gambling houses or for other vices. Tenants who are guilty of vandalism in lifts may, in fact, be evicted from their HDB flats. Tenants who misuse their flats as stores for bicycle thieves or subversive elements will also be disqualified. 

    If I may digress a little, Sir. As a Muslim myself, I feel proud to say that the Muslim society in Singapore, and elsewhere, attaches great importance to filial piety and respect for the aged. How does this come about? The answer is very simple. To a Muslim, to be filial is more than just a moral obligation. It is his religious duty. I cannot help going back into history because yesterday the Member for Anson went back into history, about 20 years ago, when he queried why the public assistance rates prior to 1973 were revised downwards, In the days of old Singapore, Sir, it was quite common to see three or four generations living happily under one roof in a kampong. I am happy to say that this age-old tradition is still being observed, even as more and more Muslims, more and more Malays, live in HDB flats. Adult children who live away from their parents provide regular financial support to the latter. They also hold reunions on festive and religious occasions. The small number of parents who experience unfilial conduct on the pan of their children are usually too ashamed of the fact to even talk about it. 

  hoiyung: I thought he was supposed to come out with figures for me. Anyway, typical of PAP Members of Parliament, I take my job seriously and have come up with the answer. First of all, it is not true to say that the Public Assistance rates were reduced in 1973. I think the Member for Anson was confused between "rates" and the "maximum allowance per household." 

  hoiyung: Yes, it was reduced in line with our family planning policy. As a Government which is pragmatic and honest, we are not ashamed to say that there was a reduction. There is nothing to hide. This is in line with the Government's policy on family planning. There are other more stringent measures which we have taken and which we have made known to the public. If the Member for Anson submits a question for oral answer, I will give him all the details to show that he has been confused. 

  hoiyung: I would not like to give an answer in half a minute. I would invite the Member for Anson to submit a question for oral answer, and I will give him the full explanation. 

    Sir, with the exception of the hon. Member for Anson, and this we shall soon test and know as we go along, this House accepts the Government's philosophy underlining the Budget proposals. The criticisms in the House have been directed largely at questions of detail. This has been so over the years during which we, the PAP Government and the people of Singapore, saw Singapore through her worst periods of unemployment and social dislocation. 

    Yesterday, the Member for Anson spoke for more than 45 minutes. It is unfortunate that he spoke immediately after my good Friend, the Member for Whampoa. A greater contrast in content, reason and argument could not have been revealed. The Member for Whampoa gave a reasoned 

 argument supported by facts and figures. He was persuasive enough, even though I cannot agree to all he said. On the other hand, the Member for Anson waffled through his speech, setting out suppositions and conjectures which he was never able to substantiate. I think the trouble with the Member for Anson is that his opinions are always chasing facts which are non-existent. 

    Sir, the PAP Government has never claimed infallibility. Far be it for us to claim that we are always right. But we have been right most of the time and where we have not anticipated developments correctly we have had the courage and capacity to adjust. This financial policy as set out in the Budget Statement is based on a cold and sober assessment of our future and sets out a realistic plan. No doubt there can be improvements as can be seen from the deliberations and contributions made by my colleagues, the PAP Backbench, have suggested and will be suggesting. But, Sir, the suggestions and comments must have cogent reasons behind them. The Member for Anson had, however, decided that the financial policy must be opposed and made a pathetic attempt to find points that he could attack. 

    Sir, the Member made much of the fact that his party was the first to use the phrase "a caring society". I do not have to tell hon. Members that this is not true. But even if it were true and his party first used the "caring society" slogan, what does it prove? Does the Member think that leading a nation and solving its problems is a matter of finding the right slogans? One does not solve problems by coining slogans. We in the PAP have leaders who cared enough to put their lives on the line from 1954 to lead this nation. Where was the Member for Anson when the communists and communalists were running loose? 

  Mr Ng Kah Ting: Not in politics. Sir, the Member for Anson, in his criticism of the 

  Hon. Members may be aware that in the Workers Party publication Towards a Caring Society on the subject of defence, the party states that in the present-day context of relations between nations, the present expenditure on defence is wasteful and unnecessary. It further states that the party sees the main threat to our society is from within and therefore advocates the maintenance of a regular army (not a National Service army that we now have but a regular army) to meet the threat to our society and to maintain peace. Sir, it is clear that somehow in a confused way the Member for Anson has arrived at the right conclusion. The conclusion is that if his economic policies are implemented, there will soon be such a mess that it will require the army to intervene to maintain law and order. Sir, I cannot think of a more certain prescription for the demise of our nation. 

  Mr Liew Kok Pun (Boon Teck): Mr Speaker, Sir, let me begin by congratulating the Minister for Trade and Industry for having presented the Budget Statement. It is one which could be described as a no-pain-now-but-heavy-weather-ahead Budget. Singaporeans must be relieved to know that our economy is on an even, steady keel, despite the downturn in the world economy and a deepening world economic recession. Here, Sir, I would like the Member for Anson to note this important point. We have, as a nation with positive political leadership, sound economic planning and a disciplined workforce led by the NTUC, weathered several world economic storms and we have also chalked up impressive economic records over the last two decades. We have not been haunted by the spectre of unemployment that looms so large over many developed countries. However, we cannot afford to be complacent or contented with our past achievements simply because we have become so used to progress and affluence. What we have built up over the last 23 years through sheer hard work, grit and perseverance, can crumble overnight if we do not put in sustained efforts in our drive for greater productivity in all sectors of the economy. A country devoid of any resources other than its manpower can survive only if it has a rugged, resilient and resourceful people. They are also usually a people who have forged for themselves an intense and dynamic culture. There are ample examples in modern history to support this observation. The north-eastern Asian countries comprising South Korea, Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong, despite their scarce resources and inhospitable geographical terrains, have been chalking up good economic progress. What makes a country tick is, therefore, the quality and calibre of its people. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, yesterday in this House, the Hon. Member for Anson touched on the NTUC. As I am a trade unionist involved in this organization, I wish to give my views. We have great faith in the Minister for Trade and Industry and his officials. Before the Minister prepared the Budget Statement, he invited representatives of the NTUC and its affiliates to discuss and give their views on the Budget. We are indebted to him for this. The National Trades Union Congress dedicates itself to the growth and progress of our Republic. The trade union movement is an important movement in Singapore. Through tripartite cooperation, it has set an example for industrial peace. The National Trades Union Congress has done, and always will do, things in the interest of the nation at heart. Through its many stalwarts, the Labour movement has helped to achieve progress. We can see it in this House. For example, the experienced Mr Ho See Beng, Mr Seah Mui Kok, Mr Eric Cheong Yuen Chee, Mr Sia Khoon Seong are Members of Parliament. They are given the opportunity to voice their views. Being Members of this House, nobody can deny that they are able to voice the views of the workers. People know that their views are heard in this House. One person from the National Trades Union Congress is a Minister without portfolio. This was mentioned yesterday. 

    The workforce itself is indebted to the Government for appointing a trade unionist as Minister. We are proud and consider it a boon to have a trade unionist as a Minister. We thank the Government for this. But the Member for Anson, without reason, seems to criticize this. This has hurt the feelings of the workers of Singapore. 

    Yesterday, the Member for Anson supported job-hopping. I do not support it. Job-hopping is something we should not allow. It may cause many problems. Some workers have job-hopped because they want to get more money. But this affects the discipline among the workforce and that is the reason why job-hopping is not encouraged. Therefore, we should not allow job-hoppers to use Singapore as a training ground. 

    The Member for Alexandra mentioned that some businessmen had expressed disappointment with the Budget because they had apparently expected more incentives or concessions to stimulate business, and he wondered if I had considered the views and suggestions, which were made to me during my pre-Budget discussions, to be, as he said, not very appropriate. In general, I found the discussions to be useful in that it enabled me and my officials to obtain direct feedback from the sectors concerned. Incidentally, to dispel any doubt on the part of the Member for Anson, I did not meet only with the Secretary-General of the NTUC. The NTUC delegation comprised union leaders and representatives who had direct contact with the workers in the factories and on the shopfloor. As might be expected, much of the discussion at these meetings did not relate specifically to tax changes but were concerned with the general business and social environment and issues which were of importance to each particular group. 

    I now come to the comments made by the Member for Anson. In his speech he has claimed that the concept of p"caring society" was first put forward by his Party in 1976. Such a claim reminds me of the 

    I now turn to more serious matters. The Member for Anson has said that he will not support the Budget because the fruits of Singapore's economic growth have not been equitably shared with the workers. This is a grave allegation and would be an indictment against any government if it had any validity. It is thus all the more deplorable for the Member to seek to deceive this House and the general public by making a statement which, he must know, is totally untrue. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, these are the broad statistics which record what is so patently visible to everyone in Singapore but which the Member for Anson refuses to see. Because of this Government, 

    In a period of full employment and rising wages, the Member for Anson has conveniently set himself up as the champion of the rights of the workers. May I ask what cause the Member was championing during the period of the 1960s when there were riots in the streets and when there were high unemployment rates and when there were bleak economic prospects for the working man. Then the Member was conspicuous by his silence. 

  hoiyung: The Government's economic and taxation policy has always had, as its primary aim, the generation of wealth and then its distribution throughout the whole population in a fair and equitable manner. What the Government has not done is to follow the destructive policies suggested by the Member for Anson, i.e. to carve out in an arbitrary and ultimately self-defeating manner shares in an economic cake which is steadily becoming smaller. That is the road toward eventual collapse in the economy as can be seen in those countries which were unfortunate enough or foolish enough to follow the policies advocated by the Member for Anson. 

    Regrettably, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson did not speak much on the Government's taxation policy yesterday as he had run out of time. However, he did speak at length on this subject during the debate on 3rd March on %he Income Tax (Amendment) Bill and I presume that his views have not changed. In that debate, dwelling on the burden of taxation on our workers, he suggested that instead of looking after the rich, the 

    In any case, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson may not have realized 

Abbas Abu Amin              Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think it is prudent on my part to reveal in public the name of the nearby country in which he was last heard of. However, if the Member for Anson is curious about it, he can write to me and I shall give him the information in strict confidence, just to 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I ask the Member for Anson: is there any objection in my giving that information to him in confidence? Does he object to that? 

    However, if the Member for Anson has any information whether he has been in contact with his family or he has contacted any lawyer or himself in a professional capacity, if he would tell me in strict confidence I will keep that confidence and act upon it. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: The Member for Anson is referring to a written reply which we gave to him when he wanted to know a whole long list of fees and charges imposed by the HDB. Therefore, in the summary table it was only possible for us to give the various reasons in point form. One of the reasons for this fee is obviously for the administrative effort involved. But the reason is, as I have given just now in more detail, that it is basically a token charge. The normal policy is that we do not allow a transfer of tenancy. But we have made a concession in these cases to allow it, and in so doing we charge a token fee. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, I think the question should best be directed to the Member for Anson who is a lawyer. But, as is well known, the fees could be very substantial in terms of stamp fees and so on. Very often there is consideration involved because you are transferring something of value from one person to another. In this case our policy is that this tenancy really belongs to the HDB. It is not a property to be transferred from one tenant to another. We have actually made a concession in this case, by allowing a transfer in special cases and with a token charge. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, this is not the first time that the Member for Anson has not been able to follow logical argument. I think the Members are hardly surprised and, in fact, I despair at having to explain to him. But the fact is that if the original tenancy was given to this partnership, the partners Mr A and Mr B, in the proportion of maybe 50-50, then when A transfers or gives up his share to B, B gets a 100% share. So there is a change in the original conditions. B is now getting a bigger share, and often this means that he is enjoying a bigger rental subsidy, and so on. Normally we would not allow a transfer. If, for example, A wants to transfer his share to someone completely new, we will say, "No. You bring this back to us. You tender again." This is because the market rental is different, and these are month-to-month tenancies. If A wants to take in a new partner, we will allow it, but then we will revise the rent to the market rental. So the Member must understand the basic premise. I can see a lot of confusion on his face, but as I have said, it is hardly surprising. 

 and keep some of those people out, which would be a shame, or we have to push Mr Speaker back, which would also be a shame. I myself would be sorry to see this House demolished and rebuilt because, as I have said, it is a cosy House. The Member for Anson can come right here and point his finger at me. But in other Houses he will be far away. This is the seat of our Legislature. We make laws here. I am sure Members will agree with me that we need a better environment outside and a million dollars is well spent. 

  hoiyung: The time is up, hoiyung: I have had no notice, Mr Speaker, Sir, of the subject that the Member for Anson wanted to raise, otherwise I would have taken out the newspaper cuttings of his disdain, his derision, his contempt for the organizations of the People's Association - the community centres, the consultative committees and the residents' committees. Soon after the exhilaration of his victory in Anson, he pronounced to the world that he was going to set up a democratic organization. He was going to have elections in Anson, true, real representatives of the various blocks; not the bogus, handpicked, unrepresentative lot in the Residents' Committees, in the community centres, in the consultative committees. 

    I hear that the Member for Anson is dissatisfied because some of the members of the consultative committees and residents committees at election time have decided to take sides. That is a next step. And when he does so, he does so in his capacity as a member of the consultative committee or the residents committee. He is under no obligation to do so. And that is the security that he has. That is why I am the Chairman of the People's Association. And it will be thus for a very long time. 

    Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam:

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I believe all Singaporeans have the right, as anybody else, to celebrate their National Day, or nation building. If the Member for Anson does not wish to celebrate nation building and if he does not feel that he has contributed anything to nation building for the last 25 years, by all means, he does not have to take part. There is no need for him to behave like a sour grape. 

    I have covered the points of substance raised by my colleagues in Parliament. I shall now move on to the speech made by the Member for Anson. The Member raised three points. First, our Defence expenditure at 27.92% of our recurrent expenditure is too high. Second, the acquisition of E2C or Hawkeye at $1 billion is unnecessary, particularly as we do not see any immediate threats to our security. His third point is: reveal our enemies. Where are the threats? Who are the enemies? These are the three points which I will answer one at a time. 

    He made one claim and, that is, he and the Workers' Party are totally committed to the defence of Singapore. I shall also examine this claim later on. But first, Mr Speaker, let me state briefly our Defence objective and philosophy. Our Defence objective is straight forward, and that is, national security and national survival. We are too small to be a threat to anyone but we must be able to stand up for ourselves should we be threatened. We see our security and prosperity as closely linked with that of Malaysia and our other ASEAN neighbours. All we want is to be left alone to progress and prosper in peace. But deterrence requires that we have and are known to have a good defence capability. Our defence doctrine is therefore to build up sufficient military, civil, social, economic and psychological strength to deter any threat against our vital interests. And should deterrence fail, to have the capacity to repel any aggression. We started off emphasizing military defence, first full-time national servicemen and then 

    I know, Mr Speaker, Sir, that such a general answer would not satisfy the Member for Anson and I do not propose to duck the issue. I will come to his points one at a time. Looking at our Defence expenditure and relating it to just recurrent expenditure alone is not correct. He should relate this Defence expenditure to the total Government budget. For the coming year, the more correct figure is therefore 13.67% of our total budget. This appears to be high. But to view this percentage of 13.67% in isolation and to conclude that we should scale down our Defence expenditure is to betray an analytical perception that is as shallow as a saucepan. And I propose to give him more information, more data, and to circulate to Members of the House a Table (Cols. 1275 - 1276) on Defence expenditure for Singapore and several other countries plus two neutral countries, Sweden and Switzerland. 

  hoiyung: Yes, for New Zealand also. For Australia, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Thailand, Sweden, and Switzerland. This is published information taken from the Annual Reference Edition of the Pacific Defence Reporter The object of circulating this Table and to examine the data here is to take the Member for Anson through what I would call a proper assessment of information, and not picking one information and coming to a quick conclusion. 

    I will move on. Defence weapons cost the same to a poor country as well as to a rich country. There is no discount just because you are poor. So also an aircraft. In fact, I suspect the richer country will get the aircraft cheaper than the poorer country because it buys aircraft in abundance. There is a bulk discount. And if the Member for Anson were to argue that we are spending far too much on defence per capita my answer is, it is worth incurring $780 per head to protect each and every Singaporean in Singapore. In fact, this figure has gone higher this year. The figure this year will be close to $1,000, actually $900. Is the life of a Singaporean worth $9007 

    The Member for Kebun Baru spelled out the scenario when Singapore was bombed during the Japanese Occupation. I would go one step further and try to recall what happened to Hamburg during World War 11, when Hamburg came under similar heavy air bombardment. In one night alone, 70,000 Germans died through direct effects of the bombing as well as through the after effects of fire or chaos. 70,000 dead Germans in one night. Hamburg at that time had a population of about 1.5 million people. So you can extrapolate very easily - what would have happened if this bombardment had carried on night after night for one week? To Germany, the loss of Hamburg would have meant the loss of only one city, but to Singapore if you lose 70,000 lives in one night and we lose the city of Singapore we lose the whole nation. So our situation is very different from other countries where, if they are caught with their pants down, they lose only one city. But if we are caught with our pants down, we lose everything. I suspect the Member for Anson wants us to be as blind as a helpless day-old mouse. 

    Now we come to the sensitive ticklish question of, "where are the threats?" The Member takes a snapshot of Singapore when the sun is out and asks, "where is the rain? Who says it is going to rain. I do not see any dark clouds." He has no sense of history and no ability to visualize the future. His vision is as far as that of a bat. He knows very well that to name an enemy is to make an enemy out of him. If I were to point a finger at my good friend across the Floor, any one of them, and designate him as my enemy, he will be my enemy. Does the Member for Anson want Singapore to make an enemy out of a friend? Is that the objective of the Member for Anson so that I will stumble into the trap and name 1 -2-3-4-5 as my enemy, and then we have an enemy? Defence expenditure will then be justified. But even if yoU justify Defence expenditure at that point of time, it is too late. 

 because to do so, as I have explained just now, is to turn him into an enemy. But I do not run away from a direct question and I shall tell the House. Our enemies are those who try again and again, and again and again, to reduce our Defence expenditure - to zero. If they have their way, they will disband National Service and dismantle our Defence structure altogether. That is our enemy. Does the Member for Anson honestly support National Service? I am interested to hear his views later on. His view of the threat assessment, whether he still supports the acquisition of the E-2Cs and whether he honestly supports National Service. I ask this because the Member has claimed that he was totally committed to the defence of Singapore as was the Workers Party. I think we should weigh his words carefully for what they are worth. 

    Who runs a regular army to maintain peace in the country? Internal security. Peace in the country is for the Police, not for the regular army, We are a little perplexed as to what the Member for Anson in 1976 had in mind assuming that he had won the elections and become the government of the day. 

    Sir, I think I have spoken enough. I believe the Member for Anson would like to have some words and I would suggest to the Member for Telok Blangah not to withdraw the amendment. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has missed the point entirely. Why does the Defence expenditure appear high as a percentage of GDP, as a percentage of Government spending, as a per capita figure? It is because of our small population. To buy an aircraft is going to cost the same for us as for any of these countries listed here, and each of these countries which I have given here has a population bigger than Singapore. So we would expect that a bigger country, even though its per capita income is lower, would have a bigger GDP, a bigger government budget. So if you were to reduce security expenditure in this format, our expenditure would appear to be very high. The point is, are Singaporeans going hungry? Are Singaporeans out in the street, without homes to live in? Do they not have good medical facilities? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I think there is really no need for me to get into details. If the Member for Anson has been to the Netherlands, he will see that there are no floods in the Netherlands because the dykes are there. But if you remove the dykes, you are going to have floods in the Netherlands. The whole country will be flooded. The SAF is like a dam. Because there is a dam, you do not see the flood. When you remove the dam, then you will see the flood. But the policy of the Member for Anson is to prepare to build the dam only when the flood waters have engulfed us. I think he can preach that to his members in the Workers' Party but not to the rest of the Singaporeans. 

    Really, my point, Sir, is that it is not the E-2C, it is not the National Service. The crux of the whole argument of the Member for Anson is whether he believes in the defence of Singapore basically. He says he believes in the defence of Singapore, but I am not persuaded. 

    Who were the people behind the National Party of Singapore? I think the Member for Anson can tell us. He was its legal adviser. He was responsible for drafting its constitution. The NPS never got round to contesting any elections. It seemed the prime movers could not agree on who should be the secretary-general of the Party. 

    When that became apparent to the Member for Anson, he and Murugason, the present CEC member of the Workers' Party, decided to team up with one Charlie Seow to form the People's United Front in 

    Later in June 1971, the Member for Anson became Secretary-General of the Workers' Party. His stand on Defence has been consistent - that we should scrap the present Defence expenditure, whatever that means, our present levels, wasteful, unnecessary, scrap it. 

  hoiyung: Wasteful, unnecessary. Reduce to what level? Mr Speaker, Sir, we are not convinced that the Member for Anson is serious about his claim that he was totally committed to the defence of Singapore. 

  hoiyungasked earlier, is this expenditure on the planes depriving Singaporeans of anything? And I say it is. At the moment, our Singaporeans are not getting the proper medical care and, of course, I am not talking about the rich. I am talking about the poor who are not getting enough by way of public assistance. They are not getting enough, the handicapped, the maimed, the deaf, the dumb. They are being deprived. And the Government is ready to spend a billion dollars on something which we, certainly in the Workers' Party, are not convinced and I am sure the majority of Singaporeans are not convinced. 

  hoiyung: Sir, on the first point raised by the Member for Anson, there are no plans to share offices. I think even older groupings than ours, the European Community, for example, find that in many instances bilateral relations with other countries demand that they have separate offices and separate staff to deal with them and it is not possible to deal 

    Before I move to another matter, I would like to touch on the comments made by the Member for Anson, who is not here now, regarding productivity growth in the manufacturing sector. The Member claims to speak for the workers. Yet he tries to do the workers in by questioning the productivity improvement attained by them. He argued that their productivity has fallen compared to 1982 by 1.4%. The workers have worked conscientiously and more smartly and have made contributions to the productivity growth. The Member for Anson should not deprive them of their contributions and the benefits that higher productivity will bring to them. 

  The Minister of State for Trade and Industry (Dr Wong Kwei Cheong): Sir, I could not have agreed more with the Member for Geylang Serai that our workers were more productive last year. As pointed out by the Member, evidence of this is clearly reflected in various independent surveys, such as the surveys carried out by the Ministry of Labour, the Times Organization and the National Productivity Board, and also in my Ministry's Economic Survey of Singapore. However, as mentioned by the Member for Geylang Serai, the Member for Anson chose to question the reliability of the statistics in the Economic Survey. 

    The Member for Anson said during the Budget debate on Monday, 12th March, 1984, that the Government's claim of a rise in productivity in the manufacturing sector was a lie. According to his calculation, manufacturing productivity has been falling since 1981. This is a serious accusation and even though he is not here at this moment I will show that his calculations are wrong. 

    In his haste to find fault with Government statistics, the Member for Anson has got himself completely mixed up. He failed to realize that the productivity growth figures quoted in the Economic Survey of Singapore referred to real value-added per worker, whereas his own calculations were based on current prices. In other words, the Member for Anson made the 

    Since 1981, value-added in current prices in the manufacturing sector has been declining because the price of Singapore manufactured goods has been falling. Hence, if the real value-added in 1983 is to be compared with that in 1981, one must adjust for this price effect. When this is done using the figures in Table 2.1 of the Economic Survey as quoted by the Member for Anson, he would find that real value-added per worker in 1983 expressed in 1981 prices was $36,669 compared with $34,419 in 1981. It has therefore gone up, not down, as alleged by the Member for Anson. But even if he were to adjust for the price effect, the Member for Anson would still have made a fundamental flaw on conceptual grounds. He has used value-added figures from the Table in cols. 703-4 of the Economic Survey, ie Table 2.1, which is based on the census of manufacturing. These broader value-added figures, technically called census value-added, should not be used for the purpose of computing productivity because they include the cost of intermediate services, like legal fees, accounting fees, interest payments and rentals which are the contributions of other sectors of the economy. 

    There is yet another reason why the census of manufacturing figures cannot be used. The footnote at the bottom of Table 2.1 in cols. 703-4 of the Economic Survey states that the figures cover only establishments engaging 10 persons or more. They do not include smaller establishments with less than 10 workers but their contribution to the economy is not insignificant. In calculating the overall productivity their contribution to value-added must be taken into account. As Members of the House would have noticed, the calculation of productivity is not as simple as the Member for Anson would have us believe. I would suggest that he leaves such things to the experts to save further embarrassment for himself. He insinuated that the Government deliberately distorts productivity figures to give a rosy picture of the economy. I can assure the House that this is not being done. Nor is it in the interest of the Government to do so. We 

 will want to know the true picture so that appropriate and effective measures can be taken to put things right, We have not flinched from telling the truth even if it hurts. In fact, the Member for Anson would surely have noticed from the Economic Survey that productivity in the manufacturing sector went down by 2.9% in 1982. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to inform the Member for Anson that the warrant of arrest against Phey Yew Kok is still very much in force. Phey Yew Kok remains on the wanted list of all Interpol affiliated countries, and the alert for his arrest on sight is still on. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as a lawyer, the Member for Anson should know that if a wanted man is in one of the countries outside Singapore, the Singapore Police has no jurisdiction to go to that country and make the arrest, they have to depend on the cooperation of the police force of that country. 

    What more does the Member for Anson expect us to do? I have stated in my reply that we are in constant contact with the police authorities of the affiliated countries where we think he might be taking refuge. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we do not represent Interpol. And we also do not control the freedom of action of the Member for Anson. So my answer is quite obvious. He can write to Interpol if he likes. How can the Government of Singapore or the Singapore Police Force interfere with his freedom of action? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I can say yes, I certainly would like to see the contents of that letter. In what way is the letter phrased? I repeat my answer - I have no control over the actions of Interpol, neither have I control over the actions of the Member for Anson. Is that not an obvious and clear answer? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has raised two questions. The first arises from his not having listened to the answer which I have just given and, that is, for whose benefit the house union is intended to promote. I took care to explain that the rationale of house unions is to precisely promote the benefit of workers as well as to promote the nexus between management and labour, which nexus will also bring about greater productivity, greater profits which in turn will be shared by the workers. And so the answer is clear - it benefits both the company and their management. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we again have the Member for Anson resorting to his usual parliamentary tactic of wild allegations without substantiation. I have just said that the Government will strongly promote the formation of house unions. There has been no instance of anyone being forced to have a house union. On the contrary, some unscrupulous and irresponsible leaders have resorted to intimidation and threats to prevent the genuine formation of house unions. It is that kind of intimidation which exists in isolated cases with regard to which the Ministry of Labour will take a strong stand. If he has specific details of anybody being forced to have a house union, then can he substantiate his allegation in this House now? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: That is precisely the kind of intimidation that I am referring to, where persons who want to form a house union are intimidated and threatened against supporting the idea of a house union. It is those kinds of threats and intimidation that the Member for Anson should seek to have publicly denounced in this House. 

  Dr Goh Keng Swee: Sir, I will deal first with the few points raised by the Member for Anson. They are not really matters of great substance. As usual, he believes in the British practice of fair play, manifest justice, such-like doctrine. Let us remember that we are not dealing in law courts but with the banking system where billions of dollars are at stake, where the reputation of bankers is known to the market, where the reputation of rising financiers is 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, first of all, I wish to thank the hon. Member for Whampoa for understanding the purpose of setting up the Board which, unfortunately, the hon. Member for Anson seems to fail to understand. 

    On the point raised by the Member for Anson, I have just now said that the building industry in Singapore needs upgrading. In the opinion of the hon. Member for Anson, it would appear that the Singapore Government or the Ministry of National Development is sleeping all the time and did not do the upgrading and then we have to set up the Board to upgrade. That is a statement which goes against the grains of modern development. As we know, we are living in a period where all the technology, not only in the industries but also in the office are constantly improving. The hon. Member for Anson will know that all the modern offices are now going into computerization, to upgrade the office efficiency. And in the industries I think all the countries 

 are looking and citing Japan as an example. Why are the Japanese industries able to overtake other industrialized countries? It is because the Japanese industries are constantly being upgraded. If the hon. Member for Anson's theory holds good, then those countries which are already industrially advanced should not do any further upgrading because any other country that does further upgrading would mean that these industrially advanced countries are sleeping and are not upgrading. That is the theory which the Member for Anson is trying to propagate. 

    This is contradictory to what the hon. Member for Anson believes - that by forming this Board it is a waste of money. The truth is the other way round. By forming this Board, we will save a lot of money because all training related to the building industry, related to the introduction of new technology, new machinery, will come under a single organization, so that all training can be properly coordinated. A lot of duplication will be avoided and a lot of money will be saved because it is under a single body. 

  Mr S. Chandra Das (Chong Boon): Mr Speaker, Sir, I have obtained the right to raise a matter of public concern on the Motion for the Adjournment today. I am really sorry the Member for Anson lost in a very democratic ballot and I would urge him to continue to try and not to seek special concessions for himself. 

  hoiyung: There is no insuperable difficulty to compute the results requested by the Member for Anson - only that it costs time and money. The data requested by the Member for Anson will cost the taxpayer $1,300 to extract. Unless the information serves a clear purpose, the Ministry does not carry out analyses of the type requested as there is great pressure on computer time for priority work. 

    The Member for Anson can readily estimate the results he requires from the data provided to him on 20 Dec 1983. The passing rates for the subject combinations can be easily estimated by making use of a well-known probability formula. Thus, for example, given that the passing rate for EL1 and Maths C are 43.8% and 73.3% respectively (in 1982), the passing rate for EL1 and Maths C taken together is around 32% (i.e. 43.8% X 73.3%). But in fact there is a positive correlation between passing EL1 and Maths and in this case the combined pass rate is higher at around 38%. The passing rate for EL1, Maths C and CL2 taken together can be similarly estimated. The main point is that EL1 is the weakest subject and hence any subject grouping including EL1 would be pulled down by the EL1 results. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first, I must ask for clarification from the Member for Anson. Can he clarify his point that wives of Singapore citizens have been forcibly ejected from Singapore because they have contracted marriage? Is he referring to those wives who, before they were married, were work permit holders? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, let me answer the question. In fact, the question has a bearing on the work permit policy which, of course, is administered by the Ministry of Labour. But never let it be said by the Member for Anson that we duck the question on a technicality. Mr Speaker, Sir, there is no question of a forcible or violent overthrow of spouses of Singapore citizens. 

 mitted to stay in Singapore. The Member for Anson should know that the legal basis for this is provided for in the Immigration Regulations concerning work permits. Paragraph 9 (A) (3) reads: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we are having a repetition of what happened yesterday, although I thought the Member for Anson would be a little bit wiser from yesterday's experience. I have given an answer as clearly as possible. The policy is spelt out in the law and the law requires that, when a work permit is cancelled for breach of any condition, the Immigration visit pass is deemed cancelled. Therefore, whether or not that person has any relationship with whosoever in Singapore, that person will be asked to leave. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Mr Chua Sian Chin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I am raising a point of order. The Member for Anson's line of questioning is such that it would appear that he is championing non-citizens, foreigners. He has forgotten that he has been voted into this House by citizens. But the point of order is this. Will he declare his direct personal pecuniary interest in his line of questioning? In other words, has he got cases of this nature representing non-Singapore citizens regarding application for permanent residence? How many cases has he got, acting as a lawyer outside this House or in the name of his firm "J.B. Jeyaretnam and Company"? Can he declare his interest? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I take the Member for Anson's answer to mean that he has no pecuniary interest and that he has raised this matter only as an MP but not as a lawyer or in the name of his firm. 

    May I refresh his memory that he has done so in his capacity as a lawyer and not as an MP? May I produce a letter from J.B. Jeyaretnam & Company in which it is stated: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson says that the letter was signed by his assistant and he has no personal knowledge of it. Is that so? I take it to mean that. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, in his supplementary question, the Member for Anson asked: does this policy not negate the Government's policy of emphasizing family life in Singapore? On the contrary, the entire immigration policy of Singapore, of which this question touches only a part, is to enhance the quality of life in Singapore, to enhance the quality of family life in Singapore. Therefore, let us always remember, as the immigration policy always stresses, that here we are trying to improve standards of living for all Singaporeans. We are emphasizing the skills of Singaporeans. We are investing a great deal on education. We have taken much effort to cut down the birth rate in Singapore. Is all this to be negated by blindly letting in persons including the illegal immigrants whom the Member for Anson championed yesterday? Are we to let in the indolent, the lazy, the malingerers into Singapore and therefore completely undermine the quality of life for all families of Singaporeans? This is the critical question, Mr Speaker. If Singapore is a land of plenty, we could afford to take a very humanitarian approach in our policy on permanent residence and citizenship. But Singapore is not a land of plenty, so we have to take a strict policy on immigration, a policy that will enhance the quality of life for the vast majority of Singaporeans. Very often, the Government is faced with the problem of making unpleasant and unpopular decisions. When faced with this task, we have to choose that option which is least unpleasant and which is intended to promote the interests of the vast majority of Singaporeans. 

    In spite of all these measures we have taken so far, we can still expect a certain number of pupils, albeit a reduced number, to leave the school system prematurely because of streaming. There are many reasons why school leavers leave the school prematurely. Some of these reasons are inherent in the school system whilst others are external to it. The first reason is that the school curriculum is too academic. There are some pupils who could not understand abstract concepts. If I may just give an example to illustrate. Take modern mathematics. The pupils with very low IQ could not understand modern mathematics. They do not understand sets and so on. [Interruption] I think here the Member for Anson is worried because he may have problems in understanding modern mathematics. I think we should teach them simple arithmetic, arithmetic concerning income tax, i.e. the simple aspects of income tax computation. So the first weakness of the education system is that you have got an academic curriculum. 

 increasing the pool of trained teachers. The first point is this, and here I want the Member for Anson to take note. I think the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State of Education should again talk to the housewives, those who have been teachers before and who have resigned from the Education service to look after their children. This time it is to seek their assistance to teach for a few hours in schools whilst their children are attending school. 

    However, I am of the opinion that, after exempting CPF balances and the residential unit, some form of estate duty should still be retained on estates exceeding a certain value. In other words, wealth should not be allowed to accumulate too rapidly from generation to generation. Unfortunately, the Member for Anson is not here. I would like to claim that this is consistent with our socialist principle with regard to the distribution of wealth and income. Perhaps the Minister may like to enlighten me or to explain the rationale for the estate duty exemption. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyung: Sir, in the cases mentioned by the Member for Anson, the HDB will try to arrange for this person to pair up with another single person to live together to rent a flat. In view of our housing shortage, it is necessary for us to insist that there should be at least two persons per household to qualify to rent or purchase flats. 

 moving from the 1- and 2-room flats into the purchase flats. These 1- and 2-room flats will be vacant and therefore available for the people that are waiting in the Member for Anson's constituency. 

    I wonder whether the Member for Anson is a bit worried in that, if we clear these unlicensed hawkers, he could not go round selling his newspapers which is considered unlicensed hawking also. But that was not my intention. My intention was to speak for my constituents who are concerned about littering and - 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, before the Hon. Minister gives his reply, I do recall the abolition of the police posts. I stand to be corrected. But I do not think I am far wrong. Yes, there were police posts, but they were during the colonial days and when we, the PAP, came to power, the entire police structure was revamped and reorganized. With the increasing facilities and easier communication through the telephone and radio patrol cars, there was no need for police posts to be sited in various parts of Singapore, so that the manpower could be better deployed on the beat, in the patrol cars and at the police stations to serve the community better. I know it as a fact for I have been in this House since 1963. I am glad that Paya Lebar Police Station, which serves about 13 constituencies, in 'F' Division, is doing a good job. For the record, that is why even the police post in Jalan Kayu was taken away for that matter, and sited in Toa Payoh. I think that, in part, answers the question of the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I answer the Member for Anson? The Member for Anson wants to know why we have asked the Japanese team to come and give us expert advice on the koban system. I have already stated quite categorically that the reason why we have asked for their advice is that in all industrialized countries in the world, there was a rising crime rate, but Japan is the only country or one of the few countries that has a falling crime rate. Do we want a rising crime rate, or do we want a failing crime rate? If we have a rising crime rate, then the majority of people will be insecure. There will be more criminals. It is not good for business or for the majority of the people, except lawyers. 

  hoiyung: I am not interested in reverting back. We are not reverting back. This is a new situation. The Member for Anson may have misunderstood the whole thing. But I am glad when he says he is not suspicious. 

    Let us get this straight. The point is this. There is a contradiction here. If we do not have more police posts, then we have less presence of the police in all the neighbourhoods of the housing estates. If we do not have the presence of the police in all the housing estates which the people welcome, then how can we have a close relationship between the police and the residents of housing estates? The Member for Anson may not want the police to be around in the housing estates but I believe the majority of MPs - 

 do not meet them as some lawyers do when they have got into trouble. Of course, when they have got into trouble and see their lawyers, then they give a different picture of the morale of the police force. But I do meet the vast majority of them. Their morale is high. If the Member for Anson says otherwise, then let him take a census as he is so fond of suggesting it. 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: Sir, can I ask the Member for Anson to describe to the House his concept of the police post that he knew of before, including the policemen? 

  The Chairman: Does the hon. Member for Anson wish to reply? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am speaking plain simple English. If the Member is confused, I will repeat my question. Can I ask the Member for Anson to describe or to give us his concept of what the police post was like before and also to describe the policeman he saw before, the uniform, the beret and so on? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy, Sir, if I heard my colleague, the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Labour, correctly, he wanted the Member for Anson to describe the police post he saw at that time, not the police force. 

  Mr Ng Kah Ting: Sir, I am not at all confused. I know what I am talking. In any case, I think the hon. Member for Anson has finished and I beg leave to withdraw the amendment. 

 part of the question in the debate on the Subhead moved by the Member for Punggol. The solution which we are considering at the moment is to have more police posts along the lines of the koban system. If we implement that system, then all the neighbourhoods will not only see the police presence but also be more secure, no matter what the Member for Anson says. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

    There was a fire recently in the same row of shophouses referred to by the Member for Anson. The Fire Service did a splendid job in rescuing a family of four who were trapped in one of the burning shophouses. The fire started at No. 237 and spread to No. 235 Tanjong Pagar Road. Both premises were occupied at the time of the fire. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is evident, from the wording of the Question posed by the Member for Anson, that he clearly was under the impression that those shophouses Nos. 243 to 235 were vacant. I have just demonstrated by fact that two of them were not vacant at the material time but that three were vacant. 

    The situation is that this row of shophouses is awaiting demolition. They can only be demolished when the residents have moved out. Some residents have moved out and the contractors who have been entrusted with demolition will begin to demolish those shophouses which are vacant, and when the others move out those too will be demolished. The Member for Anson can assist by encouraging or persuading the residents to move out of these, as he has pointed out, dangerous premises as soon as possible and thereby enable this condition to be eradicated. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson will refer to Vol. 42, No. 2 of the Hansard, in other words, if he will do his homework, he will find that I had, at the sitting on 31st August, 1982, described for him at length the necessary legal procedures in the clearance process. 

    In the area referred to by the Member for Anson, the Resettlement Department is currently in the process of determining the eligibility of affected persons. There has been no undue delay. Compensation will be paid when the interviews are over and alternative accommodation will be offered when facilities are available. No eviction action will be taken before this is completed. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am afraid the Member for Anson may not be familiar with the situation in this particular part of his constituency. In actual fact, the development in this area, which has been acquired by the URA, consists of two phases. The first phase has already been more or less settled. The people there have been given offers of compensation, alternative accommodation, and so on. Some of them are choosy and are still there. They are, therefore, facing the hazard of fire which is unavoidable in any resettlement site. You cannot expect the Government officers to keep going to those places and telling them, "Clear the debris. You are facing a fire hazard". 

    Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam:

    The Member for Anson, in his typical fashion, has referred to the situation of wives, foreign wives of Singapore citizens - 

  hoiyung: May I request that the Member for Anson let me speak, as I did not interrupt him when he spoke, especially since my time is shorter than his? 

    Foreign wives of Singapore citizens - the statistics of approval of permanent residence were outlined in this House the previous week. I pointed out that about 75% of these applications were approved. In fact, if we take the past three years, the figure of approval is more than 80%. If the Member for Anson knows of any other country in the world where there is such a high percentage of approval of permanent residence for wives, I shall be happy to receive his information. This shows that we have been very liberal. 

    There is no basis for the Member for Anson - and he has not indicated in this House any basis whatsoever -to draw his wild allegations that the granting of per- 

 manent residence for wives has been discrimination on the basis of wealth. He has not brought one shred of evidence, and the fact of the matter is that we have been very liberal in granting permanent residence to wives. They are representative of all shades and classes of wives of Singapore citizens. The majority, in fact, are from the working class. We know that the Member for Anson has a penchant for making such allegations, but one would at least expect him to substantiate his allegations instead of making them out of thin air. 

  hoiyung: With all respect, I think Members of this House - that includes the Member for Anson and, particularly, one with a legal training - should know that a point of order means a point relating to the observance or non-observance of the rules or the Standing Orders of this House. If, in his own judgment, the answer that I give does not suit the points of publicity which he seeks or desires, that is a misfortune for him and nobody else. If he thinks that my points and the answers that I am making, unfortunately, do not meet any propaganda objectives that he has in mind, I 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Sir, I had intended to ask my Minister of State to reply on the subject of the Chinese newspapers because I think he knows better than many, the peculiar problems of Chinese newspapers. But since the Member for Anson has brought up the question of the Nanyang Siang Pau, I think it is only proper that I make just a few points before I allow the Minister of State to deal with this subject in some detail. 

    The Member for Anson has made the point that we believe in free enterprise, therefore, why not have a free expression of ideas? Sir, I had given this matter a detailed reply when he brought it up last year. I made it clear that we in Singapore are not prepared to allow a situation similar to that in other countries where you have complete press licence, and all kinds of ideas of inciting the people, being allowed free play. We make no apologies for it. We are responsible for the society. We are responsible for the stability of this nation and we are not going to be cowed by any member of the opposition or by any international press correspondent to change this policy. We are not responsible to people outside Singapore. We are responsible to our citizens. 

  hoiyung: Unfortunately, Sir, I am told that the correspondents from Times House are not able to take down word for word what the Member for Anson said. And so they had to take down the points and present it in such a way that next day it makes very great sense. I can assure him that if Times House is a Government department that would not have happened. 

    The Member made the point that in the case of the English papers we want to encourage competition, and that in the case of Chinese papers, we do not want to encourage competition. Sir, the Member complained just now that he always gets long policy statements. The reason why we have to make long policy statements is that he does not understand the subject. So we have to explain in detail because his questions are always questions that are irrelevant. We have never said that we would not allow competition among Chinese papers. I have explained why and it will be explained in greater detail in Mandarin, if the Member for Anson can follow, why it was necessary for these Chinese newspapers to unite their resources. 

    Sir, I just want to touch on a few other points which have nothing to do with newspapers. The Member for Anson has again taken up cudgels on behalf of the foreign press correspondents, most of whom, I must hasten to say, have very 

    The Member for Anson said that the Internal Security Act has been used to put down political opposition. How is it that he is here this evening in this House if this Government has been going around using the ISA to put down political opposition? 

    As far as meetings are concerned, I do not know why the Member for Anson continues to raise this. I think I have explained in great detail that we will not give permits for any public meetings except on special occasions like National Day - 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not think this House should be used to elicit answers on normal Government procedures. If the Member is interested in having a May Day Rally, he can make his application on the prescribed form in the prescribed manner, and it will be given due consideration. We do not care what the meeting is called, whether it is called "Residents' Forum" or Debate, they come under the same category, and he was quite right and quite wise in applying for a licence under the Public Entertainments Act for the Residents' Forum that he intended to have. If he has made such an application, that application will be given due consideration. All the details that were requested by the officials of the Ministry of Culture are very relevant details. When an application is made, Sir, obviously certain data is required before it can be decided whether the application can be granted or not. It is not sufficient to know just the name of the Party and the place of the meeting because that is not sufficient to consider the application in detail. We have to know what is the subject, who are going to speak, especially in the light of the fact that the Workers' Party seems to have a tendency to have members and committee members whose history and record the Secretary-General himself is not aware of. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Sir, I am constantly surprised at how the Member for Anson slips in clarification speeches under a point of order. But the point I made is still relevant. From our past experience with the Member for Anson and the Party that he represents, I think we are perfectly justified in asking for all these details before we give due consideration to his application. If he has made the application it will be given consideration. This House should not be treated in such a manner that any Member can make an application and ask for an answer here. 

    Therefore, it is the newspapers' duty and obligation to salvage the deteriorating situation. The merger of the two newspapers is not what the Member for Anson described as one of closure. Before I answer the Member, let me seek his clarification. Did he not say that the Government would not allow competition in the Chinese newspapers? May I ask him if he knows of any other Chinese newspapers besides these two? 

    Sir, may I deal with the Member for Anson - 

  In Mandarin): The Member for Anson seems to be very dissatisfied with the non-issue of a work permit to a journalist of the Far Eastern Economic Review, who, to him, is a hero. There must be good reasons for this. Perhaps foreign newspapers have over-praised him. Let us read what he has told the foreign news 

    'The Government's plan not to increase the bus fares and so on was because of his presence. The bus fare increase was not much, and the Housing Board flat increase was reduced because of his presence (in Parliament).' Great words from a foreign correspondent for our hero here. Bangkok Post chided us by quoting the Member for Anson on the suppression of the press. The Financial Times, one of his later great pieces, the International Herald Tribune, but someone must say and I quote, "There are 5,000 detained people in Singapore." 

    The Member for Anson mentioned in passing when he spoke just now that the two Chinese newspapers had to be punished and had to be closed down, and he then made a passing reference in the same sentence or context to the detention of Mr Lee Eu Seng. The manner in which he glossed over this fact, as though this action taken by the Government was a casual action motivated merely by critical press, shows how little he understands the kind of problems that Singapore has faced in the past and the kind of problems it faces today and the kind of problems that it will face in the future. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson is prepared to resign tomorrow, I am sure any of my colleagues here will be prepared to resign and contest him in any constituency in Singapore. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this Government is a serious Government. It does not play games. We do not go round frittering hard-earned taxes just to satisfy the whims and fancies of the Member for Anson who is so anxious to be in the public limelight and to make propaganda out of every point. Of course, he has to try. That is his job. But certainly we are not going to be a party to it. We are not going to spend public funds. But if, and I repeat this, if he is prepared to resign his seat (he can pick any seat in Singapore, including mine in Kallang), we will contest and see who the people support. 

    But the point I want to make, Sir, is that when the Member for Anson talks about these very serious matters, one would expect him - even though he does not know the language as I do not know the language - to at least make the effort to find out before he comes to this House and talk so glibly and so casually about matters in our nation which can destroy the very fabric that we have so carefully built up since our independence. I thought I ought to register the point, because it is a point that the Member would do well to note, ponder and to do some research on. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: Sir, I just want to remind the Member for Anson that he 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, had the Member for Anson listened carefully to my reply, he would have learned that promotion in the SAF depends on merit amongst other things. As to how long the officer has served in a particular position, it is not relevant. The officer can be serving in a position for any number of years, but if he lacks the potential to manage bigger responsibilities, he will not be promoted. I suggest the Member for Anson secure a copy of the March 1982 Pointer where he will get all the answers to the open system which we run in the promotion of officers in the SAF. 

  hoiyung: Sir, as the former Defence Minister, may I be permitted to make some observations. I consider this supplementary question from the Member for Anson to be totally unworthy of a Member of this Parliament. He, by aided innuendo, suggested that the promotion of Brig-Gen Lee was motivated by unworthy considerations, such as a move to accelerate his career in the political field or by virtue of his relationship with the Prime Minister. I challenge the Member to make this innuendo outside the privileged walls of this House and we will see whether or not he will get away with a libel suit. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was going to make the same line of answer to the Member for Anson, and I am pleased that the First Deputy Prime Minister has stood up to do what I would have done. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, there is no need to set up a Committee to investigate what the First Deputy Prime Minister called "drivel". I would repeat what the First Deputy Prime Minister has said. If the Member for Anson seriously believes that there has been any wrong-doing in the promotion of any officer in the SAF, he should have the courage to state this outside the House and not suggest this within the House so that he could be protected from any libel suit against him. 

  hoiyung: Sir, since that was not a supplementary question, may I be allowed to comment briefly on that. When we form a Committee of the House to inquire into an activity of the Government, the assumption must be that there has been something improper. In this instance, where is the impropriety? The Member for Anson has been trying, through devious means of questioning, by innuendo, to suggest that there is something improper. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this is getting most tiresome. So I will just say this - that Brig-Gen Lee Hsien Loong has proved himself in so many ways, both inside the Army and outside the Army, to be a person of outstanding quality. When the Member for Anson says the public are worried, he is again talking nonsense. The public is aware of the qualities of this young man. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like the Member for Anson to point out any rule in the Standing Orders which requires me to obtain parliamentary sanction. And he should also indicate whether he is aware that the concept of the levy was introduced in 1982 and whether he, from the time that he was in this Parliament, has ever queried this in the Budget statements when he had ample opportunities to raise this query. 

    The Member for Anson must really make up his mind. He cannot blow hot and cold. On one occasion a few months ago, he took up the cause and argued vigorously for the displacement of all foreign workers. He made allegations here that the Government policy and foreign workers here were affecting our own workers. Now a 100% turnaround - asking for different measures which would encourage more maids to come to Singapore. So he should make up his mind. What is his position? What is his Party's position on foreign workers? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have taken note of the slant of the argument that the Member for Anson is against the reserves being blocked. I am quite sure that when the time comes, if he has the opportunity, he will be able to persuade the people of Singapore that these amendments are unnecessary. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson should listen to the answers he has solicited. I told him that the reserves do not belong to the People's Action Party. They belong to the people of Singapore. I have not consulted any legal experts. There are very few countries in the world that have these reserves. Therefore the question has not arisen. We can easily reduce ourselves to the state of the majority and the question will not arise. It has arisen because we are a minority, and I think it should not be beyond the ingenuity of people who have brought us into this unique position to make sure that, in so far as is humanly possible, no act of negligence or stupidity should pass unnoticed before the reserves are run down. The 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has not comprehended the issue. There is no change in the criterion of allowing a pupil to go on to Secondary 5 Normal to attempt his G.C.E. 'O' level. It stays at 8 points to be based on the first language and two other subjects, with a minimum of grade 3 for the first language. 

  Dr Goh Keng Swee: This really shows that the time has come for the old guard to retire! I think the Member for Anson has put his finger on the real trouble spot of our education system. He said that schools must not be knowledge factories and the trouble began with the mass production of teachers and mass production of students. Those were the early years and there was no way that we could have avoided it. And now with numbers stabilizing, the time has come when we can spend more time on developing schools and teachers at a more deliberate pace. 

    The Member for Anson made some observations on the role of teachers' unions, now that we are going to establish a Schools Council. This is a matter of some importance and, Mr Speaker, with your permission, I will use the prepared text. I must ask the ladies of the press to check against delivery because this was prepared in a rush this morning. Let me remind Members of what the Member for Anson said, and I am quoting from today's Business Times.- 

    'The Addendum contained a proposal to set up a Schools Council and to venture into the areas of moral education and comparative religion. If these proposals presage an intelligent and determined effort in these directions, as I believe they do, the teachers' unions in Singapore will need to perceive their roles in an altogether new light. For nothing is more important than producing the rounded, balanced and motivated Singaporeans of tomorrow, which can only be the result of conceiving the educational process as an integral body-mind-spirit affair, involving a creative and continuous interaction between students, teachers, the Ministry and the community at large.' The Member for Anson went on to say: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, there are some employers who, instead of conducting an inquiry into the employees' misconduct and to avoid appeals against dismissal, as mentioned by the Member for Anson, choose the easy way out by terminating the services of such employees in accordance with section 10 of the Act, that is, giving them the appropriate notice to terminate their services. There are other employers who also terminate the services of their employees without valid reasons or to save costs. The affected employees have no recourse to appeal for reinstatement on the grounds of unfair termination, as the termination is in accordance with the law. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not see the point raised by the Member for Anson about the Court of Appeal. We are talking about the Employment Act. The Employment Act provides that there must be just cause for dismissal of employees by the employers and there must be proper inquiry conducted by the employers. If not, there is always recourse for the employees to refer the matter to the Ministry of Labour and the Labour officers will then carry out an investigation. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the point raised by the Member for Anson is irrelevant. That is a Court of Appeal. We are talking about the Ministry of Labour. I am not going to make a judgment on the wisdom of the Appeal Judges. The choice rests with the employee, whether he wants to refer the case to the Court under the common law or refer it to the Ministry of Labour for an appeal. We are talking about the Labour Ministry. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the point raised by the Member for Anson was, in fact, raised in a supplementary question when I answered his Question for Oral Answer on 16th March. However, I will not insist on the technicality of Standing Order 47(3) which seems to frown upon raising of matters which had already been dealt with at previous sittings of Parliament. But since the matter is important and since the Member for Anson feels that repetition may establish a valid proposition, let me also reiterate the points that have been mentioned. 

    First of all, I stressed the other day that the treatment and rehabilitation of addicts is quite different from an approach where persons are charged for an offence, convicted, sentenced and imprisoned, which seems to be the approach the Member for Anson is harping upon as a preferred approach whenever he keeps on repeating that there is a parallel between this and the other criminal process approach where people are charged. It would be very easy for this Government to do that. Charge everybody who is a drug addict, for consuming drugs, and close our eyes to the consequence when he has served his sentence. That will never solve the problem. That is why we have taken the approach of treatment and rehabilitation so that we tackle the problem of addiction without causing the man to have a stigma for the rest of his life. 

    Secondly, the Member for Anson again repeats that there is only one doctor who signs. For the record, since the Member has obviously not heard what I said, what I said on 16th March was to refute his claim that in the drug rehabilitation centre there was only one doctor. And I stood up to say that that was inaccurate for there were two full-time doctors. I never said that the report was signed by two doctors. One can check with the Hansard to verify the truth of my recollection. 

 person be medically examined. The law requires a medical observation and examination, and that is precisely what the doctor has certified. He has not prepared that medical report for scrutiny by a private medical practitioner who may be employed by the Member for Anson. We are familiar that, in the courts of law, it is fashionable to pit one medical expert against another medical expert and each claiming that the other is not having the same expertise as he. But for the purposes of the Misuse of Drugs Act, the courts have held that that medical certificate is sufficient. 

    Let me add, since the Member for Anson has raised the spectre of abuse and, as established by the Member for Anson's own remarks, it is not just one medical examination. The doctor in charge sees the addict on three different occasions. Now that is a point to ponder - an addict is seen on three different occasions before the medical doctor arrives at his finding that the person concerned is an addict. 

    Again, the Member for Anson asked: is it not possible that there could be a wrong diagnosis? Is it not possible? I think that is not the question. The question is: is there a serious probability that there will be a wrong diagnosis? Anything is possible in this world. To draw a parallel: is it possible that the Member for Anson tomorrow will resign from the Workers' Party and join the PAP? [Laughter] On the theoretical level, it is possible. Whether we will accept him is a different matter. [Laughter] But is there a serious probability that he will join our party? I would say, and I guess he will agree, that there is no serious probability. 

    If the Member for Anson has a better plan for dealing with the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts, let him come out and tell us what his plans are. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson asked whether there are any insuperable difficulties in providing further appeals. This raises the question which I 

    Surely the question is: does the Member for Anson have any cases or experience? Does he have any evidence to suggest that there indeed has been an abuse and that people have been wrongly confined in the drug rehabilitation centre despite all these safeguards? If he has, then he has the duty to inform the relevant Minister and inform this House. It is not so much that he has received representations. I too have received representations from Members of Parliament as well as those from my own constituents, for it is natural that any parent would believe that his or her child is an innocent man, whether he has been charged for drug addiction or convicted for trafficking, or whether he has been charged for any criminal offence. It is natural, from our own experience, that the parents will be protective. They may genuinely believe that the child is not an addict for they are not able to keep a watchful eye on the child 24 hours of the day. Let us be a bit realistic about this matter. The child is not going to consume drugs in the house. 

    I have outlined the safeguards. If the Member for Anson has evidence - not 

  Dr Augustine H.H. Tan (Whampoa): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson seems to be championing a lot of causes in this House. But I can tell him that I have been an MP for 12 years and I have seen many more cases than he has in the short few months that he has been an MP. I have had cases where parents have complained about their children being wrongly detained for drug abuse. And in each and every case, I have written to the authorities concerned and I have received a lengthy reply with proper evidence that the person has been examined properly, and in each case I have shown the letter and its contents to the parents concerned and they have shut up. At the most, they will say, "Will you please appeal for my son to be released sooner." I said, "That, I can do." And I write in an appeal in due course and then a reply comes back saying, "We will evaluate the case. We will watch the progress." I can assure the Member for Anson that all due safeguards are being taken, and I give him that guarantee on the basis of my 12 years' experience as an MP. 

  hoiyung: Sir, we could go on and on with this debate. I take the view that the Member for Anson, in his most recent response, does not have evidence. If he does not have evidence that there has been mala fide exercise of discretion by the Director of CNB or by the medical doctor, then I think there is no case whatsoever to suggest that the procedures I have outlined are inadequate and warrant certain additional safeguards. 

    Finally, let me say that when we talk of wives of citizens, to dispel any notion that the Member for Anson raises of a draconian policy, last year there were 3,331 applications by wives for permanent residence. An overwhelming majority of 76.3% of these applications were approved. 

    Sir, I now turn to the points raised by the Member for Khe Bong and Member for Anson regarding the resettlement problems of Blair Plain residents. I am as concerned as they are regarding the interest of the residents of Blair Plain. The Blair Plain residents are on monthly tenancies. They accepted the temporary nature of their accommodation when they signed the tenancy agreement. They are fully aware that they may have to move out of their flats on one calendar month's notice. Such temporary arrangement cannot be regarded as permanent for these tenants. 

  Mr Ho See Beng (in Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson said just now that he did not incite the workers of PSA to create trouble. I am not surprised at all at his denial. Even in circumstances when he had no opportunity, he would still try his best to smear the Singapore Government such as telling foreign correspondents that the people in Singapore are starving. With the PSA workers being evicted, would he not seize this as an opportunity to deliver a blow on the Government? I do not believe him. Of course, I know he would deny it. Two weeks ago (it was on a Sunday) he went to Blair Plain and convened a meeting. We sent our workers there to listen. He told the workers that all of them who were forced to leave the place and wanted his help could come with their identity cards to see him. He would help them. But the Port workers were wise. They did not see him. Only three or four non-citizens went to see him. Nevertheless I do not believe what he said. For this reason, we will still have to be very careful at all times about his activities. 

  hoiyung: I will be glad if the Member for Anson could supply me the names. 

    Sir, coming back to Blair Plain again, I would only want to take this opportunity to explain that the flats in which the Blair Plain residents are occupying are not service quarters of PSA. They are flats on monthly tenancies. They are different from service quarters, such as nurses' quarters or quarters belonging to factories provided for the workers within the premises of the company. Even if they are service quarters, there is no company in the world that provides life-long housing or accommodation for their employees. I do not think anyone here in Singapore, including the Member for Anson, provide quarters for their staff. Even in Japan where they practise life-long employment, no life-long housing is provided. If Members have watched the television programme three days ago on the 17th March, on Japanese company welfarism of the Nissan Com- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first of all, I would like to deal with the specific problem faced by the Muslim man who the Member for Anson claims to be his constituent. He has also claimed to have approached a number of voluntary organizations running such homes, and the answer so far is that it is difficult for them to accommodate this particular patient because of dietary restrictions. I would like to assure the Member for Anson that he can refer that case to me on one condition, that the person concerned must be a constituent of Anson Constituency and that he is a Singapore citizen. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as far as the supportive services are concerned, as the Member for Anson and Members of the House are aware, there is a Committee on the Problems of the Aged chaired by my colleague, the Minister for Health. He will be presenting the report of the Committee to Parliament soon. It is premature for me at this stage to disclose what recommendations he will be making as far as the aged is concerned. 

    The Member for Anson, as usual, has come up with a smear on the Government. He says that the Government only knows how to appeal to voluntary organizations, that it does not do anything on its own for the aged, although it can spend $11 million on National Celebrations. 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the way the Member for Anson has been talking for the last 10 minutes would give one the impression that the PAP Government has done nothing for the disabled in the last 25 years. And I would like to take this opportunity to inform him what the Government, through the Ministry of Social Affairs, has done for the welfare of the disabled persons. 

    With regard to the details on the Singapore School for the Deaf which the Member for Anson has touched on, my colleague, the Minister of State of Education, has agreed to reply to him. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have a strong suspicion that whenever a Minister gives a reply, the Member for Anson is not listening. I have said that the MRTC made a decision not to provide provisions for the handicapped so that in case of calamities (not that we want calamities but should there be one) they would not be victims of the calamity. As a result of that, we have appointed a Committee on Barrier-free Environment for the Aged and Disabled in 

    The Member for Anson asked about the fares for MRT. It is premature at the moment to talk about the fares for the MRT. Obviously systematic plans and projections have been made but these figures have to be modified in the light of costs that will have to be incurred as a result of changing prices in fuel and spare pans. But it must be obvious to this House, Sir, 

    Sir, I would like to point out also that the Member for Anson has not been listening at all to the replies given to other Members of this House. I have stated, in reply to the Member for Whampoa, that my Ministry is conducting a comprehensive study on the problem of land transportation. I have emphasized to the Member for Kaki Bukit that this is indeed the case. Hence the need for a comprehensive survey to be looked at from the point of dovetailing it with the MRT system. There is no question about it that we are indeed having a comprehensive look at the total problem. 

    The Member for Anson also complains about the introduction of a new bus service - the Trans-island Bus Service. The reason for introducing TIBS is to introduce a degree of competition for the SBS in order to ensure that the public of Singapore get the best possible service with respect to our bus system. The Member appears to be always looking at stagnant ideas - taking one idea and flogging a dead horse again and again and again and year after year after year. This is not the approach that this Government takes, This Government looks at the changes that occur and then seeks solutions that will respond to the changes and in the process provide our people with a better way of life. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson repeats exactly what he said last year in his queries regarding the transfer of taxi licences. He claims that the former Minister had given an undertaking . . . 

  hoiyung: This is exactly what I want to point out. The Member for Anson had found it convenient to misquote the Minister and the former Minister has passed me a note saying that he did not say such a thing - that there was no undertaking. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, the Member for Anson misquotes again, obviously deliberately, saying that the Ministry of Com- munications had said that there were not enough taxis. I would like him to provide evidence that show that the Ministry had said that there were not enough taxis. Is he prepared to provide that evidence? I am prepared to say right now, this very moment, that there are enough taxis in Singapore to meet the demands of all commuters in Singapore. Obviously we must remember that the taxi is a highly personalised service and taxis go wherever their fares require them to. As a result of this, the pattern of distribution of taxis at any one time in Singapore is determined by supply and demand and it is therefore possible that some commuters who wish to take a taxi may not be able to get a taxi immediately. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has conveniently forgotten that I asked him for evidence that the Ministry of Communications has said . . . 

  hoiyung: Sir, firstly, I think the Member for Anson was not listening. Secondly, he has answered his own question. Of course, we are increasing the number of taxis. But that does not mean that there are not enough taxis. If that is too subtle for the Member for Anson, let me explain. Sir, the number of taxis required for a given population can be determined, and having established the number required, we try to keep the ratio of rides with fare-paying passengers to the number of rides where the taxis will have to drive around empty. So if we provide too many taxis, then the income for taxi drivers will drop, because they will spend a great proportion of their time driving an empty taxi because there are not enough passengers. Sir, as I said earlier, the number of taxis will be increased gradually to meet the demand that is anticipated with the rising disposable income of Singaporeans. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson asked why we do not have all the bus services amalgamated into one company. Again, I think the explanation was given a moment ago. We are trying to encourage a degree of competition in order that the vast majority of Singaporeans will enjoy a more effective and efficient bus service. Where it is appropriate, the Government has no hesitation to run its own operations. This is the case with regard to the MRTC. So there is no question of the Government running a particular branch of public transportation. But it must be appropriate. 

    Sir, I think the Member for Anson also raised another question as to whether we should publish all the reports that we have when we study problems of land transportation. The answer is no. If we were to publish everything that we have, then the Ministry will have nothing else but reports and reports coming day after day. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson has a very narrow view of education. We take a much wider view of education in which we believe that education embraces all curriculum matters in school. It embraces sports. It embraces education in social responsibility and citizenship. So whether we have put the word "sports" before "education" in the Act or whether we have put the words the other way round, I do not think there is any doubt at all in our minds what our objectives for the Institute of Education are, and the Member can rest assured that we will not lose sight of these objectives. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not propose to deal at length with the points raised by the Member for Anson for these are points which he has raised on diverse occasions relating to similar provisions in other Bills. He has asked why do we not provide for appeal to the courts. We have many instances of analogous legislation where administrative and ministerial decisions have to be taken, and taken fairly expeditiously. If all appeals against administrative and ministerial decisions are to go by way of appeal to the courts, obviously our courts will be completely bogged down with reviewing administrative decisions. They will have no time to deal with pressing matters, such as people charged with bicycle theft, assault on taxi drivers, commissions of contempt of court, deceiving creditors, and so on. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, our couns must have as a priority different tasks, and also the Member for Anson is unaware of the trends in administrative law in other countries where it is impossible to have administrative action reviewed individually by the courts or by the setting up of tribunals which will result in a tremendous delay. Adequate safeguards exist. The Member for Anson must also know that under the system of administrative law which we have inherited and which operates in Singapore, any person who feels that the exercise of administrative action is contrary to the law can have it reviewed in a court of law. 

  Mr Speaker: Before I call upon the Member for Anson, may I briefly mention two rules which govern a Debate on the Adjournment. One rule bars the raising of matters for which no Minister is responsible and the other bars discussion of matters involving legislation. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, there are about seven Committees, for which the same phrase is used, which consist of yourself as Speaker and seven Members of Parliament. Seven times seven is 49. The balance in this House is 74 to one. The hon. Member, therefore, does not qualify. He would be well advised to try and get some other Workers' Party members in this House. When he has a few, then one of them can be sitting on these Committees. But 74 to one, you have no chance. 

  Mr Speaker: The Member for Anson has also given notice of an amendment. The terms of his amendment* are set out in the Order Paper. 

 Member for Anson. If he does not read the newspapers, he is not aware of what was happening in Manila. I think he was not aware because he has never shown any interest in events in the Philippines until he read a report in the Straits Times on the 13th of October, which was based on a draft report and which referred to the information that we had provided the Philippine Embassy here, The very next day, without waiting, he rushed to the nearest phone, I think, and telephoned in a statement saying that he intended to raise this question of the Government. He never showed any interest in the Philippines before, and if he does not know what the circumstances were in the Philippines before Aquino arrived in Manila, then I am afraid this House is not the place where he is going to be educated. He should go and read the newspapers for himself. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not going to answer his first question because I have repeated more than once what the circumstances were. As to his second question, unlike the Member for Anson, the Ministry does not comment on newspaper reports based on reporters' speculations on drafts which were leaked in Manila. The official report was not out until the 24th of October. It was true. Has the Member read the Agrava Report? May I ask him - have you read the Agrava Report? 

    Sir, I cannot refer to all those who are stepping down but perhaps you will allow me to refer to the oldest both in age and seniority amongst the Backbenchers. He has on many occasions, when not slumbering, injected life into our debates. His frequent interruptions have sometimes annoyed you, Sir, and on one occasion the Member for Anson who, I am sure, will miss the Member for Khe Bong provided he himself is not missing from this House. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, 1965 did not see such an amendment. He goes by what he reads. The Member for Anson, as a member of the learned profession, should not go by what he reads in the press. The legislation on elections was governed by laws which were promulgated in 1959, and I remember distinctly that when the then Member for Sembawang died in August of 1962, we did not have to hold an election because there was an evenly divided House of 25 Members on each side until we held the General Elections in September 1963. When we became part of Malaysia, Malaysian laws then applied to Singapore. When we were separated from Malaysia, we re-adopted the 1959 practice which does not require us to hold an election or bye-election within three months. There are variations in as many countries as there are running the first-past-the-post system. 

 explain the simple elementary rules of parliamentary practice. There is no requirement. There never was a requirement to hold a bye-election, and we decided to go back to the practice of 1959 because of my experience. As I have explained, the House was evenly divided, 25 on each side, and we governed with firmness and fairness from August 1962 to September 1963, for 15 months, and we won the General Elections. I can assure the Member for Anson that we will govern with firmness and fairness between now and a date before the end of 1985. 1 have already given him the answer when the General Elections will be held, how long it will be, and if there is any further information which will be helpful to him, I will contrive to ensure that he is duly informed and given as much notice as all other Opposition parties. 

  hoiyung: I am standing no principle on any head. The laws are as set out in the Constitution. There is no reason why the people of Havelock should have a bye-election. There is no reason why anybody should be looking after Havelock under the Constitution. There is no reason at all. For purely grassroots purposes and to ensure that the vote will be forthcoming in the General Elections, I have thought fit, both in my capacity as Secretary-General of the PAP and in my capacity as Prime Minister, to ask Mr Lee Yiok Seng, the Member for Bukit Panjang, to nurse the constituency. And it is completely open to the Member for Anson to set up his branch there and to meet us there in the General Elections. I expect him to do so; or he is wasting the time of this House and the time of the public. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, make-belief is to a certain extent necessary. We treat the Member for Anson with the necessary courtesy - 

  hoiyung: - and extend him the sense of importance which he, as the lone Opposition Member, feels he deserves. But if he wants us to take him seriously as a person who represents the Opposition, the alternative government, then he must comport himself as such. There must be element of credibility. I find it impossible to believe that any Committee can benefit in any way from having his counsel in its private deliberations. I think there is much more value in having the deliberations out in the open than in the same futile, utterly irrelevant series of questions which leads nowhere. And inevitably he knows because he has no destination, no particular objective when he sets out this question. So I will find it much more useful, and so will the other members of this Committee who have had long years of delineating constituencies (the Member for Anson has no idea how delineations take place) and I will find it much more useful to have his contributions in this Chamber, not in the committee room. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Workers' Party is heavily in debt and in danger of being wound up. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not wish in any way to prolong the agony for the Member for Anson. But he has this irresistible urge to inflict damage upon himself. If he wishes us to accord to him the position of an alternate Prime Minister, then he must comport himself and his party in a way which leads us to assume that he is serious in his purposes. But when he conducts himself with utter disregard for rules of decency and honesty and truthfulness, then I think we have the right to have all our dealings with him out in the open, not in committee. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I shall be very brief because the hon. Member for Anson has given a lengthy speech based totally on a wrong reading of the Bill. Inadvertently or otherwise he has interpreted the Bill's intention as weaving a veil of secrecy over all affairs. He asked why should this Bill hinder the right of any one to ask questions about the organizations named in this Bill. If he had only taken the trouble to read the Bill 

    What is the gravamen of this Bill? It relates to unauthorized disclosure of secret or confidential information by a person who was in the employ or is in the employ of a statutory board. The issue is whether a person who was in the employ of a statutory board or a Government company, without authority of the statutory board or a Government company, should have the right to freely disclose to a third party confidential or secret information: The issue is not the right of the Member for Anson or anybody else to ask questions. The record speaks for itself. Other Members of this House and the Member for Anson at past sessions had not been prevented from asking questions, Questions for Oral Answer, Questions for Written Answer, and to raise matters during the Budget or other Sittings to elicit information and response from Ministers. 

    So all this edifice that he has erected about sinister motives of this Bill is completely unfounded. The issue again is very simple. If a person was or is in the employment of a statutory board or a Government company and has access to secret or confidential information, should our law permit him, without the authority of his employer, to divulge this information to whomsoever and in whatsoever circumstances? The Member for Anson seems to think that it is permissible. If that is his view, well, he is entitled to it. This Government cannot continue to let the gap in this law remain unfilled, and the purpose of this Bill is simply to ensure that persons in employment cannot resort to unauthorized disclosure of secret or confidential information without the penalty of the law. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not propose to dwell on this. If the Member for Anson has his way, the employee would be the arbiter of what he is entitled to disclose, and that we cannot have. 

  Abbas Abu Amin         J.B. Jeyaretnam

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the purpose of this Bill is to give legislative authority to the concessions which have already been approved in the 1983 Budget Statement. The purpose of this debate today is not on those concessions itself. They have already been passed. I do not propose to waste Members' time by repeating the arguments again. If the Member for Anson is sincere in not wanting to repeat what he has said in the Budget Statement, he should not have stood up. 

   Abbas Abu Amin              Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: Every year, detailed results of G.C.E. 'O' level examinations are analysed and presented to the Schools Council. The general public have, therefore, been kept informed of the G.C.E. 'O' level results, subject by subject, through the usual mass media. The details of the 1982 G.C.E. 'O' level results (Cols. 267 - 272) are enclosed for the information of the Member for Anson. Results by the groups of subjects requested are not available. The Ministry of Education does not normally carry out such analyses. 

    I understand that a note left behind by the deceased was tendered as evidence in the Coroner's Court. The Member for Anson should know that I have no power to make public evidence that has been tendered in a Coroner's Court or any other court. If the Member for Anson is interested in the note, he should apply to the Coroner to see it. 

    Nevertheless, in this context, I would like to commend the National Productivity Board for its efforts in promoting greater awareness of the importance of productivity. The productivity message was brought home through soft-sell packages including posters and TV commercials such as "Teamy" and "Come On Singapore". Teamy, the hard-working bee, is effective in getting the productivity and teamwork message across. Sir, I notice that Teamy even appeared in the Workers' Party's publication, Hammer. This speaks well for the NPB. On the other hand, the latest TV productivity message, "Come On Singapore" is now known as "Come On Singapore Handiplast", simply because it reminds people, particularly our students and children, of the TV commercial on the Handiplast plaster. So may I remind the National Productivity Board, to be productive it has to be creative and imaginative. 

    Sir, may I now turn to the points raised by the Member for Anson? He spoke about house unions. Members will recall that in my answer to a Question raised by the Member for Kampong Kembangan on 17th January, I did say, amongst other things, that: 

    Now, what has the Member for Anson really said in his 10 minutes? He has, for 10 minutes, spoken about one union, SATU. Am I right? SATU? 

  hoiyung: He has made a series of allegations that they are being forced to form house unions and a host of other allegations, including relations between the management and union officials. For example, he has said that the management has required some of the union officials who are doing full-time union work now to revert back to doing work for which they were employed in the respective company. I am also told now by the Member for Anson that the General Secretary of the Union was given an option for three years - so I understand from him - an option either to stay in the union or to join management. If I understand the Member for Anson correctly, lately he has been told that the General Secretary must exercise the option now. I find it incredible that a management has given a person an option to join the management for three years, and I am not at all surprised that any management would want a person to exercise the option after three years. In fact, I find it surprising that the option has been given for such a long time. 

    But really, Sir, what is the basis for the Member for Anson to come to this House to raise all these allegations, which come down to one word: that they are being "forced" to form a house union. Where is the basis and evidence for his allegations? The only evidence that he has mentioned for all the things that he has said in his 10 minutes is an anonymous letter that he has received. If I were to act on anonymous letters of all shades and kind that are on my desk every morning, including anonymous letters about the Member for Anson, I will not be able to do any other work. Really, I think we must advise the Member for Anson to grow up, to take things seriously. Does he really believe that a union, whether it is SATU or otherwise, can be forced to form a house union? Does he believe that our workers or union officials are so naive? A house Union will be formed when they are receptive, when they want it. 

 the NTUC. I cannot see any way in which the NTUC or anybody can force any union to form a house union. If the Member for Anson has other evidence, in addition and apart from this anonymous letter which he has received, then let him come forward now and tell us where exactly is his evidence for these serious allegations. And who is forcing? These vague allegations, nebulous statements, are statements which one does not find befitting or worthy of a reply, unless he gives us specific details. Then we can reply. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, before the Minister replies, I must say that the Member for Anson has completely distorted the facts in the case of SATU. I wonder whether the Member knows that it is the executive council of SATU, members of the executive committee of SATU themselves who passed a resolution to invite NTUC to come in to help them to assess the possibility of forming house unions within SATU. I think that must be made clear. 

    I have already given my position concerning the decision-making procedure. I will not intervene in the decisionmaking procedure which is laid down under the provisions of the law, supplemented by the provisions of the constitution. If the constitution and the law provide for a decision on any matter, whether it be house union or other is to be taken by an open ballot, so be it. If it is to be taken by secret ballot, so be it. The Member for Anson as a lawyer must know that the law must prevail. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, since March last year, about one-third of the 640 tenants in the Blair Plain slab blocks have found alternative accommodation and moved out of the flats. There are now 404 PSA employees still staying in the Blair Plain blocks A, B and E. They have to vacate the flats by the end of May this year. I am surprised that the Member for Anson should ask about Block C, He should have known that the block was completely demolished in December, 1980, almost 2?, years ago. 

    Sir, I have explained this at length last year and I do not intend to repeat this in this House, that there is no employer in the world who provides life-long housing for his employees. The Member for Anson himself is also an employer. I do not know whether he provides housing for his employees. Obviously not; he is shaking his head. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have already answered that point. If these employees of PSA affected by the scheme had heeded the advice of PSA a long time ago, they would have found their permanent accommodation. I hope the employees, the tenants of Blair Plain, will act sensibly and take heed of PSA advice because otherwise they are the ones who are going to suffer, and not the Member for Anson. The Member for Anson has his own political ends in advising the tenants to stay put to reject HDB flats or other PSA temporary accommodation. But I am confident, Sir, that common sense and reason will prevail. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Sir, before I give my reply to the specific questions raised by the Member for Anson, I would like to take this opportunity to go back a little into history to explain the rationale for the various taxi policies that have been adopted by the Government. 

    Sir, I am pleased to note that during the last 12 months many amendments have been made. Of particular importance were the amendments to the Trade Unions Act and the Trade Disputes Act. Sir, there had been a fair amount of apprehension and resistance to all these amendments from some unionists. This is because they do not fully understand the rationale behind the changes. We need to give more and better explanations. So I hope the Hon. Minister is not discouraged and will not be deterred from continuing to update and streamline the provisions just because of the apprehension of some of the unionists, the constructive criticisms of other unionists and the destructive criticisms of the Member for Anson. For the first group of people, we need to have more patience and take the trouble to explain to them the rationale in greater detail. For the second group of people, we must listen to their criticisms and suggestions carefully and give them due consideration. For the Member for Anson you may want to ignore him. He does not know what he is talking about and he is only interested in trying to get whatever political mileage out of his acts. On top of that, the Member for Anson is a confused man and he cannot understand logic. This has been said many times in this House by the Minister of State for National Development. The Minister for Trade and Industry, in his summing up of the Budget debate, said that the Member for Anson has said nothing new or relevant but a lot that is confusing. He described his speech as a hotch-potch of unrelated ideas. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Culture, after 

 listening to the various remarks made by the Member for Anson during the debate on the Ministry of Culture commented that the Member for Anson displayed abysmal ignorance about many issues facing Singapore. Lastly, let me quote what the Prime Minister said about him last week: 

    Sir, now let us see some of the major issues that the Member for Anson has been fighting for in this House: 

    The Member for Anson would like to portray himself to be the champion of the workers. But basing on what he has done, I have no doubt that he does not care a hoot about our workers. I reckon his real motives are his own interests, his party's interests and the interests of the foreigners. I think it is obvious that he is not interested in the well-being of Singaporeans and, least of all, for the Singapore workers. 

 who was a prominent union leader for many years, has called for cooperation between union, government and employers. Why is he not calling for confrontation? Why? This is food for thought for the Member for Anson and other like-minded people. If the Member for Anson continues to advocate confrontation between union,government and employers, is he not also irresponsible? 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I first thank the Member for Pasir Panjang and the Member for Boon Lay for their concern for the safety of workers. I am not too sure if the hon. Member for Anson is really concerned about the safety of workers or about their toilet habits, but I will come to that later. 

    As to the worry of the Member for Anson about sanitary conditions, I am sure 

  hoiyung: Sir, on a point of order. I am afraid the Member for Anson does not know what he is talking about. This Subhead deals with labour inspections, in particular, inspection of safety worksites and so on. If he wants to talk about terms of employment, he should refer to another Subhead, i.e. under Subhead RC-02. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Sir, perhaps I may interject here. What the Member for Anson is questioning is how do the labour inspectors carry out this work to ensure that employers comply with statutory rules governing terms and conditions of employment. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson will perhaps agree that it is not practical or feasible for the labour inspectors to go to every firm and establishment to check the terms and conditions of employment. But they do act on complaints when received. They do investigate into cases where employers do not give workers their annual leave and sick leave and other benefits that they are entitled to under the Employment Act. This is being done all the time. If there are complaints, inspectors will interview the employees and employers and, where necessary, will require employers to provide those statutory benefits that the employees are entitled to. I think the Member for Anson is referring to this. This is being done. 

  hoiyung: Yes, safety inspections. I have explained to Members that it is not feasible and practical to go to every establishment or company in Singapore and ask to examine the terms and conditions. I do not know whether the Member for Anson would like the Factory Inspector to visit his office and check all these matters. 

  Mr Joshua Benjamin Jeyaretnam (Anson) took the Oath of Allegiance. 

  hoiyung: Will you give way to the Prime Minister, hoiyung: Do I understand the Member for Anson to seriously suggest that the PAP is using Government property in Napier Road without a proper lease with the Government? And is he suggesting that I campaigned in the last General Elections using police vehicles? These are grave charges. 

  hoiyung: Will you give way, hoiyung: An allegation has been made in the course of the Second Reading of a Bill to amend the Prevention of Corruption Act that there have been corrupt practices by the PAP misusing Government facilities. I have asked for specific instances so that I can take immediate action. I have been given two. These are serious charges, just as the one the Member for Anson made in a speech at Fullerton Square in 1976, where he made the allegation that I was corrupt or I indulged in corrupt practices in allowing a banking licence to be issued to a bank in which my brother was a director. The case has gone right up to the Privy Council and the Privy Council will soon determine whether the Member for Anson, when he swore on the Bible on oath that he did not mean to allege that I was corrupt, and that 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I speak as one who has been probably the oldest Member in this Chamber, from May 1955. I have met many more difficult and obstreperous Members than the present Member for Anson. I seek no cover of privilege and I give no reason for anyone to doubt that this Government stands ready and prepared at all times to have its conduct put under the closest scrutiny. What I will not 

  The Prime Minister: The trial has been reported at great length in 1978. His appeal in 1979 was again reported at great length in Singapore. It is before the Court and I am making no comments on the merits of the arguments. All I am saying is when that appeal is disposed of, it will mean that either I or the hon. Member for Anson - in my case I took an affirmation, in his case an oath on the Bible - went into the witness box and did not tell the truth. That is what it amounts to. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I did not want to interfere or interrupt the Member for Anson because this is his maiden speech. But he was, I think, out of order on some occasions. This Bill merely deals with two points: the penalty for gratification where charges are taken into 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not a lawyer. But from the question raised by the Member for Anson that money deposited with the Government and statutory boards does not earn interest, I would like to know whether a lawyer pays interest on money put by his client into the lawyer's office. 

  Mr Seah Mui Kok: There is no interest at all. Maybe the Member for Anson is paying interest to the people. I do not know. Let us face the facts. 

    On the various points raised by the hon. Member for Anson, I would rather not go into the details of the deposit with the HDB and HUDC because we will have plenty of opportunities very soon in the Budget debate to discuss this matter. 

    But I just want to say that the amount of deposit for an HDB or HUDC flat is not sufficient to buy the land. If the hon. Member for Anson has dealings with developers, he can ask them whether the few thousand dollars deposit for an HDB flat or the $18,000 deposit for an HUDC flat is sufficient to buy the land to develop the flats. If the hon. Member for Anson has an opportunity to ask the developers, I am quite sure the answer is "No". The amount of deposit is not sufficient to buy the land. The money held by the HDB or HUDC is utilized for the purchase of the land for development of flats. In fact, both the authorities are not holding any money of these people who deposit money with these two authorities. But this has nothing to do with the Bill before the House. 

    Under the Local Government Integration Act, the 6% interest which the Government collects is well below the prevailing market rate at present, I am quite sure the hon. Member for Anson knows that the interest rate that a finance company pays to those who put money in it is certainly very much higher than 6%, probably much higher than 11% which this Bill proposes to collect. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am not sure whether the persons who would like to visit the drug addicts are going there to counsel and rehabilitate or to relieve them of alleged boredom. But, Mr Speaker, Sir, let me say, in response to the Member for Anson, that in our attempts to rehabilitate and counsel the drug addicts to put them on the correct path and to reintegrate them into society, we would of course welcome all bona fide attempts and offers of assistance. But obviously when we are dealing with such a specialized problem of drug addiction for which there are specified methods of rehabilitation, we must ensure that all those who wish to have access to the drug addicts are properly trained, coordinated, and this is why we insist that they must go to SANA which is the body which has the experience in dealing with this matter. It is for this reason, and I think a very good reason, that we want all those who have made such offers to channel their assistance through SANA. 

  hoiyung: The answer is that if that is the offer of assistance, SANA would be very happy to get further particulars, and the Member for Anson should, in fact, 

    The Member for Anson was questioning the industrial accident figures. I agree with him that the two most accident-prone industries are the shipbuilding and ship-repairing industry and the construction industry. But it is not true to say that the industrial accident rate in Singapore is high. The figures that have been compiled by my Ministry show that the occupational injuries caused by industrial accidents in Singapore, for example, in 1981 was 22,041 with a total working population of 1,112,800. This works out to about 19.8 injuries per thousand workers compared to 56.4 in the US or even 84 injuries per thousand workers in West Germany. I think our figure is not really that high. But, of course, I have to be honest and caution Members in this House that it is sometimes dangerous to depend on figures like this without examining the definition of the statistics. Also, there could be under-reporting in our situation here. But compared to Hong Kong, our figure of 19.8 as against Hong Kong's 33.6 injuries per thousand working population is not that high. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has asked whether anyone has been prosecuted under the Penal Code for gross negligence for causing the death of workers. The answer is yes. The Ministry has caused persons to be prosecuted under the Penal Code. But I am not in a position at this stage to tell how many, when, and so on. If the Member would send in a question, I would be happy to give him the information. 

  hoiyung: Your 10 minutes are up, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as usual, from the Member for Anson, we 

  Mr Howe Yoon Chong: Sir, I have for the last year or more restrained myself and bottled myself from being personal. But I see that the Member for Anson wants to be personal. He says - 

 advised that it be done with, it is a political decision. It may be a decision like what our Member for Anson is always doing, to catch votes, "since the general election is on the way, you do not throw away votes." I think he can understand that. 

  The Chairman: Your time is up, hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has chosen this 

    With the trade union movement, I think there was some measure of protection. The NTUC has fulfilled its role religiously and has not, as accused by the Member for Anson, failed the workers. In fact, as an indication of their support, members of the trade unions affiliated to NTUC have shown their approval of the leaders of the trade union movement cooperating with the Government, with the employers, so that Singapore can be made more favourable as a place for investment, that we can continue with our industrialization expansion, and that every worker and every son and daughter of every worker will have a future security of employment. It is with this very great and noble national objective that the trade unions have gone into cooperation with the Government and employers towards creating a harmonious atmosphere in Singapore. 

    I would like to respond to the remarks made by the Member for Anson but in view of the rather short time I have - I have to divide 20 minutes between myself and the Minister for Labour - I would just touch on two points briefly. 

    First, it is very clear to everyone here and to all those who follow the proceedings in Parliament, that the Member for Anson is really more concerned about the form rather than the substance in many, if not all, of the issues he has brought up. In this particular case, he was very concerned about the types of legislation we have, the types of unions we have, the rights and the privileges. He did not mention anything about obligations, mind you. 

    Sir, I would like to refer you to a table which I have showing that workers and Singaporeans in general have progressed during the past 20 years. It shows that workers not only have jobs but they have better jobs under the regime we are practising. The Table (Cols. 1503 - 1504) I have indicates the contributors to the CPF by wage levels. Just as a very broad guideline, in 1965 - I think that is about the period the Member for Anson was referring to - workers earning below $200 made up some 63%. Workers earning over $500 in 1965 accounted for only 8.1% of all those who were contributing to CPF. In 1980, those earning under $200 made up only 7.4% while those earning over $500 numbered over 45%. Of course, for the levels in between I think he can work out the figures. To me this is a very clear indication that workers have indeed progressed. 

    The other point I would like to touch on in the three minutes I have left is this preoccupation with the legislation. If job creation, a better standard of living, and a better way of life can be achieved by a simple change of the law, then I would say that workers in Sri Lanka, in India, in Jamaica and a variety of nations now currently struggling to provide a better standard of living for their workers, ought not to be in any trouble. All they have to do is to just change the law, as advocated by the Member for Anson. Perhaps if the Member so offers himself, he may even get a job to draft the legislation. Whatever he said has been said, I think, with some malice because if he asserts that workers have not succeeded in acquiring a better standard of living, can he show figures? Up to now, during the sittings over the past six days,[ believe, he has made assertions time and time again without a single figure being shown. 

 say so on my own behalf, and that is, I am subject to election in the NTUC, and for his information, the next election is on 27th April. I would welcome any challenge which any member of the Workers Party or any friends or workers who are close to the Member for Anson, to stand for election and then do something about it since he is so disenchanted with the present labour movement. I will stand too and let us see who the workers will select. [Applause]. 

  Dr Wan Soon Bee: Sir, I am just a little bit concerned after hearing what the Member for Anson has said. I think our Minister without Portfolio has been rather kind to him when he said that the Member is more concerned about the form than the substance. From my point of view, it appears to me that either he does not really understand the meaning of industrial peace and orderly conduct of industrial relations and cooperation between labour and management or he has the habit to mislead the people, and in this case, he is trying to mislead the workers so that he can create confusion in the interest of the opposition party because only in those circumstances there is a hope that they may emerge the victor. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am afraid I have little time to answer the points raised by the Member for Anson. I think it has already been answered by my colleagues in this House. I only wish to tell him that since he is interested in legislation, there are a number of labour legislation amendment Bills that are being tabled in the British Houses of Parliament presently. If he is interested to know what these are, I would suggest that the Mem- 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng: Sir, I regret that we do not have more time to debate this very interesting issue. But I would just like to make a comment for the benefit of the Member for Anson. He does not appear to have been listening very carefully during the proceedings of this House. He has claimed that the rights of the workers have been eroded. 

    As the hon. Member for Anson has rightly read out from Hansard, a few years ago anybody who applied for an HDB flat had to wait for only 2 1/2 years. In fact, a lot of people in Ang Mo Kio, Clementi and Toa Payoh waited for less than two years. I am sure the Members who represent the respective constituencies will bear me up. That is a fact - they waited for less than two years. The constituents in Henderson should have no difficulty in getting the new flats. I really do not understand why they waited for so many years and allowed the size of their families to increase to such an extent as to cause overcrowding. 

    I now come to the hon. Member for Anson. I wish to thank the hon. Member for his show of appreciation for the achievements of the PAP Government in providing housing for 70% of the population of Singapore, although I can see that he gave it rather grudgingly. But nevertheless I would like to say thank you. 

    The hon. Member for Anson does not realize that the Government's policy not only encourages Singapore citizens to own flats but also encourages our citizens to upgrade the quality of their flats. For example, a person whose income at the time when he bought a 3-room HDB flat was relatively low. In the last five or 10 years because of the prosperity and because of economic development in Singapore, his income improved considerably and he is in a position to afford a 4-room or 5-room flat, just for argument's sake. The Government allows him to sell his old 3-room flat to a person of his own choice provided the purchaser qualifies to buy an HDB flat. The reason is that the price of the flat has increased and if we insist that he should sell his old 3-room flat at the original price, most probably he is unwilling to sell and that will prevent him from upgrading. The Government policy is to allow him, if he has stayed in that flat for more than five years, to sell his old flat to anyone he likes provided the person qualifies to purchase an HDB flat. And therefore 

    The Member for Anson, in passing, mentioned once again the subject of conservancy charges which he dealt with at some length, I think, at the first meeting that he attended here. I remember at that meeting he quoted from the accounts of the HDB that, according to the latest accounts, the expenditure, under the Expenditure column, on service and conservancy charges was $67.8 million, and under Income, service and conservancy charges was shown as $100.7 million. Therefore, by a simple deduction of expenditure from income he arrived at a conclusion that the Housing Board was making something like $32 million profit 

    On the matter of the long wait for HDB housing, I too have come across cases where people have waited eight years, nine years, or even longer. But in each case they had been offered at least two or three times flats in locations where they were too choosy. Now they cannot get them even if they want to because other people have already got into those flats. So that should dispose of what the Member for Anson was trying to say. 

    Sir, I think we should note that nowhere else in the world can people buy flats so easily, so cheaply, and so painlessly. I think Government has made it really too easy for our people, so much so that our people have become overly dependent upon the Government for providing accommodation. They have come to expect such high standards of the Government that should we just slow down a little bit, as we did over the last two years, there is a hue and cry. And the Member for Anson becomes the champion of these people. 

    I think we ought to place this matter in proper perspective for the people of Singapore. Nobody likes rising prices. I do not like them. But sometimes they are inevitable. I am glad for one reason that the Member for Anson is here, and that is, that I can sometimes take the position of the Government and defend it. 

  hoiyung: I think the Member for Anson should look carefully at the accounts. By his own definition, maintenance, repairs and upkeep appears under more than one item under Expenditure. If he looks at it carefully, he will find that the word "conservancy", though used in both Expenditure and Income, does not cover exactly the same items under both accounts. As I said, by his own definition, he is jumping to conclusions by just deducting two items, just because the same word happens to be used under Expenditure and Income. So please look carefully at the total accounts, look at the problem as a whole and not just one particular figure and jump to conclusions. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Sir, I will take the second speaker, the hon. Member for Anson, first. He has made misleading statements about the service and conservancy charges. In fact, in the last issue of Our Home magazine the HDB has clarified this and every tenant and owner of HDB flats has a statement on the service and conservancy charges. All the HDB residents have been informed that for FY 79-80 - it is in the Annual Report which hon. Members have - the HDB suffered a deficit of $15.7 million for the service and conservancy charges. In other words, we lost $15.7 million. That is also from the same account. If hon. Members have any doubt, they can write to the Auditor-General who will be able to confirm that the HDB has lost $15.7 million in the service and conservancy charges in FY 79-80. 

  Dr Ow Chin Hock: Sir, with your indulgence, may I make a quick observation before I withdraw my amendment? I seem to have the rare and doubtful honour of being supported by the Member for Anson twice, once yesterday on PARF and again today on the HDB accounting system. Consequently, I have to receive some fire and ammunition meant for the Member for Anson. Reluctantly, Sir, I beg leave to withdraw my amendment. 

    Sir, I would like to crave your indulgence for me to raise a different point altogether. You will recollect that on 19th March, 1982, the Member for Anson offered me the list of Blair Plain residents to enable me to look into whether the residents are Singaporeans or Malaysians, but I have yet to receive - 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the Member of Parliament has been elected to serve his constituents and if the Member of Parliament is not prepared to serve a particular constituent, then it becomes a separate case. But if a person, say, from another constituency, goes to see the hon. Member for Anson, I think the Member for Anson will ask for the reason why he does not see his own MP. This is the first question he will ask. And if he gives a rational explanation as to why he does not see his own MP, then if the rational explanation is given to the Housing Board, then I think the Housing Board will consider his case. 

    There are also some HDB officers who, when an applicant makes inquiries about housing matters at Maxwell Road, say brusquely, "Don't know!" or "Upstairs say so!" as if unwilling or unable to explain the regulations to the people. Worse still, when the applicant says, "I'll go and see my MP for advice", the reply from the HDB counter staff is, "See your MP also no use". HDB officers should not say such things about the Members of Parliament in this House with a possible exception. Although no one can jump the queue, the MP can explain the regulations painstakingly to them and give advice as to which new town to opt for if they want to get their flats earlier and not insist on getting a flat at a particular new town of their own choosing. In fact, HDB should thank hon. Members of this House - and here I must quickly add - with the exception of the Member for Anson, for explaining these housing policies to the people. 

    On the request by the Member for Henderson, the Ministry will look into this matter. Just now when I answered the hon. Member for Anson's question, I think the hon. Member has missed my point. The Member for Anson asked why can't somebody not from his own constituency, go to see him first to take his matter up with the HDB before he sees his own MP. My answer to him is that we do not want the HDB to do repetitive work. For example, my constituent from Geylang West wants an early allocation of an HDB flat. He does not come to see me. He goes to the hon. Member for Anson to request for early allocation of an HDB flat. Of course, the hon. Member for Anson will write to the HDB . The HDB will turn down the request by saying, "You cannot jump the queue because the HDB's rule is first come, first served." 

    What happens to that person? He will come back to see me in Geylang West. He will say, "I saw the hon. Member for Anson and I got a 'No' from the HDB." Therefore, he has come to see me to ask for my assistance because he is my constituent. I am duty bound to help him. So I write to the HDB to look into this case. The HDB looks into his case and finds that my constituent has gone to see the Member for Anson first and that the HDB has given a first reply. But because I also write to the HDB, the HDB has to reply again. This means, in fact, that additional work has been created. That is why I told the hon. Member for Anson that this is undesirable because we are trying to avoid repetitive work. 

    On the point raised by the hon. Member for Henderson, the Ministry will look into the matter. I understand that a lot of people who are living in Anson disagree with the policy of the hon. Member for Anson and so they have refused to see the hon. Member. They will see other hon. 

 Members for assistance because they disagree with the policy of the Member for Anson. In such cases, there is no repetitive work because the person did not see the hon. Member for Anson and only sees the hon. Member for Henderson. If the hon. Member for Henderson writes to the HDB, the HDB will give a reply. So there is no repetitive work, only once. I think this point merits consideration. 

  hoiyung: In short, in Anson constituency, as I mentioned just now, some of the constituents disagree with the policy of the hon. Member and they refuse to see him. This group of people are Singapore citizens and perhaps they should not be deprived of assistance from a Member of Parliament because they disagree with the hon. Member for Anson. We will consider this and perhaps we will change the set of rules for Anson Constituency, for those who do not wish to see the hon. Member. But for those who see the hon. Member, then our instruction is, there will be no repetitive work for those people who go to see the hon. Member. And PAP MPs should not interfere and should not write again. The policy is that the HDB will not do repetitive work. In other words, the policy will still continue. The HDB will do work only once. 

    As for those people in Anson who go to see the Member for Anson, these people 

 are his constituents and correctly he represents them. And if he writes to the HDB, the HDB will deal with the case on its own merit and give the hon. Member for Anson a reply. 

    As for those Anson residents who disagree with the policy of the hon. Member for Anson, if they go and see a PAP Member, I think we will make an exception by looking into the case and give him a reply. This will not breach the principle of not doing repetitive work. In other words, the HDB is doing work only once, not twice. 

  hoiyung: I am afraid your ten minutes are up, hoiyung: Sir, the hon. Member for Anson has been harping on the HDB accounting system for a long time. In fact, the last such occasion he talked about the HDB accounting was on the 3rd December last year. I have repeatedly explained the HDB accounts, and I am sorry I have to repeat again for his benefit - that HDB's current accounting system is not an HDB's invention. The system was inherited by HDB from the Singapore Improvement Trust which was established by the British Government. It is not an HDB 

    The hon. Member for Anson must surely realize that the HDB has provided accommodation for 75% of the population in Singapore. The number of accounts handled by HDB comes close to one million, comprising 400,000 service and conservancy accounts, 160,000 loan and instalment repayment accounts for sale of flats over 100,000 rental accounts, thousands of hawkers' accounts, car parks accounts, and so on and so forth. The magnitude and the complexity of HDB accounts explain why the change of accounting system cannot take place overnight. Therefore, we have to continue with the present accounting system. The HDB is doing all it can to switch over with the minimum inconvenience to the 75% of the population living in HDB flats. 

    A Committee comprising the Auditor-General, Accountant-General and representatives from the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of National Development and the HDB, has been formed to select a consultant for the enormous task of changing the accounting system. I am indeed most puzzled that any informed person could think that it is possible for HDB to convert the accounting system of such a huge undertaking like the HDB overnight. I had expected the Member for Anson to be the first person to appreciate the complexity of the task facing the HDB since his own political party appears to have some accounting problems. If the press reports are anything to be believed, it seems that his party has been facing great difficulty in presenting its accounts while the balance standing to the credit of his political party amounted to - I must not use another unsuitable word - a grand sum of $18.47. 

    Instead of going into details, I just want to give a fairly simple example. HDB is doing three things for the public, i.e. the 75% of the population who are housed by HDB and also the more than 100,000 applicants who are waiting for HDB flats. The first thing is that the 400,000 families who are living in HDB estates, HDB is collecting service and conservancy charges from them and providing the cleansing service and other services to these residents. Hon. Members most probably do not have the HDB's Financial Report with the exception of the Member for Anson. On page 8 of the 1981-82 accounts, the service and conservancy charges collected by HDB were $134,658,581 while the expenditure was $142,868,152. From there, you can see that HDB is subsidizing the service and conservancy charges. In other words, we are collecting less than what we spent. 

    The second point is on rental of HDB flats. HDB is charging a rental of $40 for 1-room improved flats. I just do not want to go back to the argument. Ask anyone in Singapore: is this rental a subsidized rent, or is this rental a profit-making rental as maintained by the Member for Anson? If it is a profit-making rental, I would advise the Member for Anson to get some investors to build flats and rent them out at $40. I think a lot of Singaporeans would be grateful to him if he is capable of doing that. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Sir, I disagree with the statement or observation of the Member for Anson - that the HDB's accounts have not been properly presented and that they have not been properly audited. I disagree with him because the HDB's accounts have been properly presented and audited by the Auditor-General of Singapore. Is the hon. Member suggesting that the Auditor-General is incompetent? Is the hon. Member suggesting that his particular friend is an authority on accounting, that he is the best and that nobody is as good as him? I doubt it. If the particular person 

 and let us see. We have a lot of qualified accountants in the HDB, We have a lot of qualified accountants in the Government. In the Auditor-General's Department we have a lot of competent accountants. If the hon. Member for Anson is saying that these people are not as good an accountant as the hon. Member, then let us see. Let us have some proof that the hon. Member is a better accountant. I doubt it. I say here that I doubt it. 

    My statement about the confusing accounts of the Workers' Party is relevant because the hon. Member is the Secretary-General of the party. The hon. Member was talking about the accounts of the HDB and he has given us the impression that he is an accounting authority. I say that if he is really an accounting authority, then his party's accounts should not have been in a mess. If there is anybody who should resign, it is the Secretary-General of that particular party, not me. Why should I resign? 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am trying to avoid getting into an argument with the hon. Member for Anson on the accounting because I know that he is not a competent accountant. 

Abbas Abu Amin                     Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    The Member for Anson has mentioned that he would not go into the question of accounts again. But I would like to mention one or two points on the accounts which the Member may or may not know. HDB's accounts are sent to the Public Accounts Committee in Parliament for scrutinizing. I am not very sure whether the Member's suggestion that HDB's accounts be sent to PUB's Chief Accountant is legal or illegal. I would like to remind the hon. Member that the PUB's own accounts are also audited by the Auditor-General. HDB's accounts are also audited by the Auditor-General. I do not know whether it is proper or not for HDB's accounts to be sent to somebody else, i.e. to PUB's chief accountant, when PUB's own accounts are also audited by the Auditor-General. I am not a lawyer and I am not very sure about the laws. His suggestion may not be proper. But if, as he has mentioned, the PUB's chief accountant has a lot of good suggestions, I would suggest that he write either to the Auditor-General or to me. 

    I come now to the Member for Anson. As usual, the Member for Anson talks without knowing the full details of his case. I think by now we have come to expect it. He talks about a man who was killed during service when his vehicle overturned. He talks about military duties and so on and so forth. Obviously if the Member for Anson had spoken to the mother, he would have realized that the case is totally different from what he is trying to tell the House. Sir, I do not intend to go into the details of this particular case because it is a tragedy. The mother is obviously very very sad and I do not think we should permit people to exploit or to take advantage of people under such conditions, like in this case for their own personal interest. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: The second case raised by the Member for Anson is 

  hoiyung: Sir, obviously the Member for Anson was not listening when I told him that the mother had been given a detailed explanation. I am not very sure whether the Member for Anson was able to communicate with the mother. But she had been given an explanation. She might have told the Member for Anson that, but I am just not sure. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think an explanation was given to the Member for Anson earlier on, Again, he has not heard it. Sir, only yesterday the Member for Anson was holding up Great Britain and its marvellous system for us to follow, and now he complains that we are following the British as far as legislation for compensation is concerned. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I will explain very simply to the Member for Anson why we followed the British. Sir, the British have a long military tradition which we do not have, and it would not be wise for us to try to devise legislation in military matters on our own without acquiring adequate experience. This must have been obvious to anybody who bothers to think about such matters, but somehow it escapes the Member for Anson. Sir, can he imagine the number of soldiers who were killed in the Falklands trying to sue the British Government? 

  hoiyung: Sir, again the Member for Anson is unaware that even in peace time we take our training seriously. We train realistically. We do live firings involving live ammunitions and people can, under such circumstances, get hurt. This is the reason why, as far as the SAF is concerned, peace time can be considered as probably no different from periods of tension and war time. The training undertaken is exactly the same, with the same level of realism and the same level of severity. 

    It has been alleged in this House that the BEST programme is a "panic measure" to correct the failure of this Government's education policy. Sir, this is a complete distortion of the truth, calculated and premeditated to mislead the public. It is a serious allegation and a distortion. This distortion must not go unchallenged. I would like to ask on what basis does the Member for Anson make his allegations. Does he base it on hearsay or on facts? If we examine the age distribution of these workers who are without basic education, we will find that the majority are above 30 years of age. They have missed out on a basic education because of the neglect of the British colonial government that was not interested in providing universal education for the people of Singapore. 

  8.00 pm last night, I was reminding the Member for Anson that I have yet to receive his list of Blair Plain residents whom he claimed to have attended his meeting and approached him for assistance on the matter pertaining to resettlement. The Deputy Speaker and Member for Jalan Kayu, who was in the Chair, questioned me whether there was any 

  Mr Ho See Beng: But before I could explain the relevancy, I was interrupted by the Member for Anson, who stood up and denied that he had ever said anything about supplying me with such a list. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has realized that he was trapped by his own stupidity and arrogance by offering to supply me with the list and has now turned and twisted his own words by saying that what he meant was to invite me to examine the list in his office. Sir, he has eaten back his words, and this is not the first time. When he encountered our Prime Minister the first time, this was what the Prime Minister described of the man: "the unseemly, disgusting. . ." 

  Mr Ho See Beng: Since he has eaten back his words, I do not intend to argue with him further on this issue, but I wish to invite the hon. Members in this House, including the Member for Anson and the Press in the Gallery to read the Hansard of last Friday's sitting on 19th March, 1982, as well as the Sitting yesterday, in order to testify who is lying and who is telling the truth. 

    I notice there is an item of loan to the Housing and Development Board for a sum amounting to $2.25 billion. Part of this sum is to be used, among other things, for compensation and resettlement. So this is relevant to the Blair Plain residents' resettlement problem and it is also connected with the Member for Anson who said that the residents approached him for assistance. Let me tell the Member for Anson that there is no need for him to assist. Just give me the list and I will assist them. 

    The Member for Anson was reported to have claimed that his presence in Parliament had forced the Government to increase the social assistance allowance. It appears that the Member has conveniently forgotten about the story of the rooster and the sun related in this House by my colleague, the Minister for Trade and Industry, on Tuesday last week. I hope the Member for Anson will not stake a similar claim - that the resettlement compensation rates are being increased because of his presence. 

    As I have stated earlier, it has been the Government's practice to review the resettlement policy periodically. In the last three years there have been two increases when the hon. Member for Anson was not around. The present increase is the third. This revision has, therefore, nothing to do with an Opposition Member in Parliament. 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, hoiyung: Sir, it is a pity that the Member for Anson did not have the extra 10 minutes, otherwise I would have more ammunition to aim at him. I shall help him, nevertheless, by asking him some questions so that he can have the opportunity to come up and clarify. 

    First, I find the term "poor" rather nebulous. It is useful for politicians to catch a few votes but useless for analysis and management purposes. Perhaps the Member for Anson could let us know what is his definition of "poor". I was in Kuwait some years ago. The driver that was assigned to me to drive the Chevrolet drove a Volkswagen to work and was complaining about his state of poverty. Poverty in India means salvaging for food from trash cans and begging in the streets. When you talk about "poor", what exactly do you mean? Can the Member for Anson please enlighten us? This would give him some time to air whatever views he would have. 

  hoiyung: Sir, we can take it that the Member's understanding of "poor", i.e. those who are in need of subsidized or free medical services, will be those whose household income level is below $600 or $700. Would this be the same group of people who aspire to buy cars? The Member for Anson was making a point, I think two days ago, that the lower income group aspires to buy cars. Would this be the same group of lower income Singaporeans that he is talking about? 

  hoiyung: Sir, neither am I aware that those falling within this group are in a position to buy cars. But in the debate here the other day on public transportation, the Member for Anson was making a point in favour of car owners and I believe he was trying to show as much sympathy as possible for them. 

    The Member for Anson in his usual form made the allegation that the Government 

 has failed to look after the needs of Singaporeans. But before that, in my own assessment, the Member for Anson has changed his attitude somewhat towards medical care. He is now saying that medical care should not be made available free to all, but only to those who belong to the poorer group. 

Again, we cannot quarrel with that. That is all that is said about health. So I am surprised, or maybe I should not be, about his position on free medical service. I think a few days in Parliament have changed the thinking of the Member for Anson for the better. 

    I do not know whether the Member for Anson is good at figures but, according to the data which I have here, those earning less than $750 household income comprise only 34% of the population. If we make our services free to all regardless of their capacity to pay, it means we are opening it up to a greater percentage of the population who earn more than $750. That was the point I made earlier in the day when I talked about those who can afford overloading the system to the detriment of the poor. 

    Has the Government neglected the population, in particular the poor? We should not just affirm that we have, because that would be following the practice of the Member for Anson who simply asserted lie after lie hoping that the lie will become true. 

  hoiyung: Sir, perhaps I should pass this copy, through you, to the Member for Anson, in case he has forgotten. 

    Let me offer another hard evidence: maternal mortality rates, that is, mothers who die during childbirth. In 1951 it was 1.6 per thousand for Singapore. In 1960 it was 0.4 per thousand. In 1980, nil. Never before have our babies been so healthy, so well fed. If the Member for Anson does not believe me, I suggest he holds a baby show in Anson so that he can see for himself whether my claim that never before have our babies been so healthy and so well fed is true. [Laughter] If he does not want to hold one in Anson, the Member for Khe Bong can invite him to one which can be held in any constituency which he may choose. [Laughter] 

 life expectancy rate of 71 years. Had we not been looking after our population, the Member for Anson would not be here to talk about it because there would be no people who would live beyond the age of 60. There would have been no old people in Singapore, or very few of them. 

    I believe the Member for Anson has at least one good doctor friend. He can ask the doctor friend or doctor friends whether he or they can produce any health indicators to prove that we have not taken good care of our people. If he has any evidence, let him produce it. If we use $600 or $750 as an indicator of those who should be given hospital services at a cheap rate - 

    The 90% subsidy excludes the capital cost. The cost of providing one bed is $200,000. Of course, we have got to amortize it over a period of years. The capital cost is $200,000 per bed, and this has not been taken into account in the calculation of the subsidy for patients in C-class. If 10% fee recovery is too high, then perhaps the Member for Anson is advocating that it should be made free for all citizens. But I have lost track of his thinking. It has somewhat befuddled me. On the one hand, he said that it should not be provided for free and, on the other hand, he has been shouting, "free". So I do not know his real position. We are not a give-away society. 

  hoiyung: Those - [Interruption]. Sir, I believe I should not be conversing with the Member for Anson. If I do so, I should do so through the Chairman in the appropriate manner. We are not a give-away society and we have no intention of giving away our society through free medical care for all regardless of the capacity to pay. We are conscious that there is a group of Singaporeans who through no fault of their own sometimes cannot afford to pay for the subsidized rates. But the way to take care of this problem is to give them a conscious specific subsidy and not to have a system that is so generalized that anyone can take advantage of it, even those who can afford to pay the token rate. A generalized subsidy system is unfair. It would only overload the system and in the end the strain must break it. Our approach is to give free medical attention to those who deserve it, including those on public assistance or in social welfare homes. 

    The Member for Anson showed concern for the poor, the chronic sick and the aged sick. May I ask, through you, Sir, whether he has visited Trafalgar Home and the Woodbridge Hospital where we have quite a few hundred chronic sick patients? 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson does not believe me, he can apply for a place in Woodbridge and he will find he can get a bed in Woodbridge. [Laughter] 

    If the Member for Anson is genuine in his concern for the aged sick, then it is a laudable concern because the problem of the aged sick is indeed a very serious one. And I am not drawing any conclusion. If it is just a ploy to win a few votes, then I think he would have demeaned himself by using the poor, the chronic sick as political cannon balls. 

    I want to come back, Sir, to the question of free medical service, subsidies, and suggestions of more welfare. In the debate in Parliament so far, the Member for Anson, if I read him correctly, wanted to achieve an efficient and comfortable public transport. He wanted the public transport to be nationalized. He did not quite use the word "subsidy". So I might have read him wrong. 

Jeyaretnam, J.B.            Hwang Soo Jin

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has over-reacted to my written reply to him on 3rd December, 1982 on Ho Juan Thai. To refresh his memory, I would like to recapitulate what I had conveyed to him earlier in my written reply. I had stated that there was prima facie evidence to justify Mr Ho Juan Thai's possible detention under the Internal Security Act and that Mr Ho's championing of Mr Tan Chay Wa's cause was an indication of Mr Ho's political sympathies and, possibly, also his affiliations. 

    The Member for Anson has now produced a statement by Mr Tan Chay Wa which Mr Tan gave on 16th January 1983 before his execution. The Member for Anson had not, however, disclosed how he came into possession of this new statement of Mr Tan Chay Wa. In the statement, Mr Tan claimed that Mr Ho did not have 'the slightest organisational relationship' with him and that he "absolutely did not know Ho Juan Thai and had never seen him". 

    In 1977 (sic), Ho Juan Thai stood in general election on a Workers' Party ticket. As he gave a prejudicial speech during public rally, the police came to arrest him at his rented place. Ho escaped and hid in bush, and was wet because of heavy rain. Subsequently, he sought refuge in our house for two days. Before departed our house he mentioned that he was going to look for his friend (details not known) in West Malaysia. If he was not arrested he would telephone by hitting at the telephone 3 times which meant he had safely escaped police arrest. Later, Ho Juan Thai did make such call.' Why should Mr Tan Chay Wa discuss Mr Ho Juan Thai at all in his statement to the Malaysian Special Branch if he did not know Ho as he claimed? From his statement Mr Tan Chay Wa clearly had intimate knowledge of Mr Ho Juan Thai, how he had avoided police arrest, was 

    The facts I have stated clearly substantiate my conclusion set out in my written reply of 3rd December 1982 to the Member for Anson, and I quote: "As in other cases like the SPLO, the Workers' Party may have provided Mr Ho with the cover for things less innocent than providing constitutional opposition". However, no action was taken against the Workers' Party in the case of the SPLO because our Internal Security Department came to the conclusion that the Party (meaning the Workers' Party) had provided the cover more out of ignorance and foolishness rather than deliberate subversive intent. So the Workers' Party was given the benefit of the doubt. There is no necessity to hold a public inquiry as suggested by the Member for Anson for it would be a sheer waste of time and public funds. 

    Then we had this case of Ho Juan Thai coming up, I think it was sometime last year. There had been refutations of what we had stated about Ho Juan Thai who had fled from Singapore because he refused to submit himself to interrogation by the Police for what he had done during the election time, i.e. trying to raise communal emotions and accusing the Government of killing Chinese culture, education and language. We say that we have a prima facie case against Mr Ho Juan Thai. But the Member for Anson says, "Why cannot you give him immunity from the law?" By law, I mean not the rule of law which the Member for Anson has in mind. 

  hoiyung: But the law of Singapore passed by this Parliament. It is not my rule of law. It is the law passed by this Parliament and the ISA is part of the law. Are you challenging the authority of Parliament? Is the Member for Anson saying that the ISA is not part of the law of Singapore which has been passed in Parliament? No answer. How can we give such an undertaking? To do so, it will be abdicating - 

  hoiyung: Of course, I am going to answer your question. We will be abdicating our responsibility if we give such an undertaking. Our point is that before we move, either under ISA or to charge him in court, we want him here so that he can be questioned. We cannot give any undertaking of immunity from the laws of this land which have been passed by Parliament. If the Member for Anson is a good supporter or Ho Juan Thai is a good supporter of him, why does he not persuade Mr Ho Juan Thai to come back here and face the music, i.e. face the law of this land which has been passed by Parliament? He is a lawyer and he should know better. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I refer to the question which is posed by the Member for Anson. He asks: 

    '... if he is not prepared to withdraw his allegations, will he order a public inquiry into this serious allegation against this political party [i.e. the Workers' Party]. Can he clarify this? Is he asking for an inquiry to clear Mr Ho Juan Thai or an inquiry into the Workers' Party? We say that an inquiry into the Workers' Party is a waste of time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as far as the Workers' Party is concerned, I do not think we need to incur a waste of public funds to hold an inquiry. Even their accounts, I believe, have been looked into by the Official Receiver. I think that is also a waste of public funds. If we would want to hold an inquiry into the Workers' Party itself, although the end of it may not be good for the Member for Anson I think - 

  hoiyung: Why should we waste public funds because the Workers' Party's antics are so obvious to the public? Besides, as far as Ho Juan Thai is concerned, why should we hold a public inquiry to clear him? He is a fugitive from Singapore. What we are asking him to do is to come back and be interrogated and face the law of this land. To hold an inquiry into Ho Juan Thai is a waste of time and public funds. It is something so ridiculous that I do not think I need to say anything further. Why should we have an inquiry into Ho Juan Thai? Who is he? He is a 

    In fact, the Member for Anson should be very grateful that the Government statement on the SPLO has exonerated his party because our Internal Security Department came to the conclusion that if ever they had given cover to the SPLO it was more out of foolishness and ignorance. 

  hoiyung: There again, I think the Member for Anson is either hard of hearing or he refuses to understand what I have stated. I said that as far as the Singapore People's Liberation Organization's instance is concerned, they have been exonerated. But as far as Ho Juan Thai is concerned, we are still waiting for him to come back,to be interrogated. I still stand on my statement that they may again have provided cover for subversives like Mr Ho Juan Thai. I hope that is clear enough. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chairman, Sir, first of all, I shall deal with the need for Homes for the Chronic Sick as touched upon by the Member for Anson. There are at present two hospital wards for the chronic sick run by the Government with a total capacity of about 150 beds. As quite rightly mentioned by the Member for Anson, in addition to these two wards, there are also other Homes for the Chronic Sick run by the Society for the Aged Sick, the Sree Narayana Mission and the Franciscan Nuns with a total capacity of about 600 beds. 

    The Member for Anson also touched on the inmates of the Woodlands Home for the Aged. As far as the Woodlands Home for the Aged is concerned, 48 of the inmates require personal care such as changing and assisting to the toilets; these are the non-ambulant. 100 of them are semi-ambulant. Those who require nursing care will be sent to the chronic hospital at Woodbridge Hospital. 

    The Member for Anson said that a charitable organization has applied to the Ministry to set up an hospice. That application has not come up to me yet. I do not know when this application was made by the organization. Could the Member tell me when? 

    As far as the Disabled Persons Section of my Ministry is concerned, Sir, it generally directs its welfare services to the 15-44 year age group, as this is the category of disabled persons who are most suitable for employment. Since the special education of disabled children comes under the purview of the Minister of Education, my colleague, the Minister of State of Education, has consented to reply to all the questions raised by the Member for Anson. 

  The Minister of State of Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Sir, I think it is quite evident from what the Member for Anson has said at great length that he did not listen to my reply to the Question for Oral Answer raised by the Member for Ayer Rajah last week. Short of taking over these special schools, physically and in every other way, the Government is indeed providing as much as it can to help these schools to function and to help their man- 

 agement committees find the means to run these schools, and the Government will continue to do so within constraints, such as the shortage of teachers that we already face in the whole education service. But let me just reiterate for the benefit of the Member for Anson the things that are being done so that he will not feel so emotional in his plea on behalf of these schools which, as I have said, are receiving a great deal of assistance from my Ministry. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Sir, first of all, let me settle an old score with the Member for Anson, and that is his query whether there was a reduction in the Public Assistance (PA) rates after this Government took over. If I can refresh his memory, Sir: his question to me a year ago was whether I would confirm that there had been reductions in the rates after 1973. For the information of the Member for Anson and for the information of the rest of the House, PA rates prior to 1973 were, if the Member for Anson would care to take down - 

    Let me reiterate to the Member for Anson once again that this Government is pragmatic and honest. We are not ashamed to admit that there was a decrease in the maximum payable per household. There is nothing to hide. We have introduced far more stringent measures than the meagre reduction of $20 of the maximum allowance payable to each household. I hope I do not owe him anything more as far as PA rates are concerned. 

    Before I go on to answer the rest of his questions, let me, first of all, inform him that all recommendations for withdrawal of Public Assistance as a result of reviews by the Public Assistance Section of my Ministry are carefully considered by the Public Assistance Review Committee (PARC) at its monthly meetings. Chaired by me personally, membership of the PARC comprises my two Parliamentary Secretaries, three Members of Parliament and senior officials of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Besides reviewing cases, fresh applications which are assessed by officials as unsuitable for the grant of PA are also referred to the PARC for a decision. In addition, Sir, the PARC considers all appeals for reconsideration made by hon. Members on behalf of their constituents, including the Member for Anson. Hon. Members are welcome to refer appeals to this Committee. I can assure the Member for Anson that his cases will be heard by this Committee as well. 

 in the presence of the applicant or recipient. If there is any feeling on the part of the Member for Anson that the Ministry harasses or coerces any applicant or recipient into making a statement, this is not so. Sir, in 1982 a total of 390 cases voluntarily withdrew from public assistance. 

    Let me come to the next case of the lady with the bumboat man. Sir, since the Member for Anson did not disclose the name of this lady, I shall do likewise. Let us call her Madam X. Madam X, a widow aged 79, was an itinerant cake hawker. She stopped work in 1971 due to old age. She went back to China to visit her only son in 1971 with her life savings of about $7,700. She returned to Singapore after spending three to four months in China where she had exhausted all her savings. She applied for Public Assistance in 1972. As she was reported to be without means of support, she was assisted with PA with effect from February 1972. She was then living alone at Block 28, 219 Jalan Membina Barat. Her case was reviewed in September 1982. Investigations revealed that Madam X had shifted to her present residence at Jalan Bukit Merah on 1st July, 1982, to live with one Mr Y, who was recorded in the HDB tenancy list as her adopted son. Mr Y, a bachelor, is a bumboat driver with no fixed employer. He has a declared income, as the Member put it just now, of $350 per month nett and is supporting Madam X who is also in receipt of Robin Welfare Aid at $30 per month from my Ministry. Later Madam X and her adopted son called at the Ministry to request a final payment in October 1982 and to withdraw from Public Assistance. In view of the above findings her request was acceded to. Her voluntary statement of withdrawal from Public Assistance was witnessed by her adopted son. I have got it here. It was thumb-printed by Madam X. Her thumb print is there. 

    Sir, on 5th November, 1982, the Member for Anson wrote to me to ask for the restoration of Madam X's Public Assistance without delay and that all monies withheld from her over the past weeks be refunded to her. The Member believed that the sum of $30 is not enough for Madam X to maintain herself. He also stated that if 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson should know that the Construction Brigade, as explained in press statements and other occasions, concerns persons in the national service. But here, we are talking about persons who are in RTC upon a court order, and the two instances are therefore quite different. 

  The Minister of State of Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, as to be expected, wanders over a very wide range of things, mouthing pious platitudes if I may say. And he reveals his ignorance about education and what is going on in our education system. Let me ask him: where did his children go to school? 

  Dr Tay Eng Soon: Thank you, Sir. Sir, given that the Member for Anson has come up with a hotch-potch of issues on education betraying his lack of depth of comprehension of education, all I can say is that he needs some education himself. We will be happy, as patiently as possible in the future, to educate him and enlighten him on any aspect of the education system 

    The PAP won all seats in the last general elections in 1980. So too in the elections held in 1976, 1972 and 1968. The people have returned the PAP in all constituencies in four general elections held in the past 16 years, and in by-elections in 14 constituencies held in-between. Since 1965 when Barisan Sosialis boycotted Parliament, the Opposition has not been represented in Parliament until November 1981 when the present Member for Anson was returned by 653 votes in a by-election. 

    Why should we deliberately ensure that Parliament, henceforth, should have at least a few Opposition Members? There are several reasons. First, from our experience, since December 1981 when the Member for Anson entered this Chamber, we discovered that there are considerable benefits for younger Ministers and MPs. They have not faced the fearsome foes of the 1950s and 60s. Initially, they were awkward in tackling the Opposition Member. But they soon sharpened their debating skills and they have learned to put down the inanities of the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Secondly, and much more important, Opposition MPs will educate a younger generation of voters who, not having experienced the conflicts in this House in the 1950s and 60s, harbour myths about the role of an Opposition. Although they may be disillusioned by the performance of the Member for Anson, some hope that other Opposition candidates can be more credible and effective. Well, let there be others. The people will learn the limits of what a constitutional Opposition can do. 

    In brief, within eight months after the Member for Anson entered this Chamber, my senior colleagues and I came to the conclusion that the new situation, contrary to our expectations, was better for Singapore, better both for the Government and for the people. It is no longer in the interest 

    By this amendment we shall provide them with some experience on the usefulness and limitations of Opposition MPs. They will experience different kinds of jousting styles and, I hope, a wider range of arguments and ideas than the limited repertoire we have got so tired of listening to since December 1981. When the Member for Anson came into this Chamber, he swaggered in with the much-vaunted hopes of his excited followers. They filled up the public gallery to watch the Government tremble and tumble. Three years later the Government is undented --- 

  hoiyung: --- but the Member has been tarnished by unsavoury book-keeping and accounting practices until the Official Assignee has been appointed by the Court as Receiver of the Workers' Party, an abuse of Parliamentary privileges, failed law suits and costs awarded 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the young should be given a chance to see the contributions made by Opposition Members, and they will be given a chance to judge not just from a short burst of election sloganeering and rhetoric but, as in the case of the Member for Anson, for several years of his performance in Parliament. There is, however, let me remind the House, the real possibility that some able, 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, let there be no misunderstanding with the PAP Backbenchers. This proposal is no indictment of their lack of probing and ferreting for information or the tenacious pressing of their constituents' interests. Hansard, throughout the years when there was no Opposition in Parliament, contain ample evidence of Ministers and the Government being taken to task by PAP Backbenchers. They will continue to be alert. The point is that they accept that the Government does not deliberately lie, cheat, deceive, steal. The Member for Anson, on the other hand, alleges that, like him, and his Workers' Party, we do. 

    The public perception is that there are certain areas, certain aspects of government where a Backbencher is unlikely to question the Government as relentlessly as an Opposition Member. And, indeed, there are subjects and questions raised by the Member for Anson which no thinking or intelligent MP would consider raising, not because they are afraid to do so, but because they would be acting wildly and stupidly if they did. PAP Members have a penchant for sharp but constructive and responsible criticism. 

    And let us not forget that at least 25% have consistently voted against the Government. Some of them want to believe the worst that the Member for Anson has alleged. It is, therefore, as well that we are given the opportunity to debunk each and every mischievous charge. 

  hoiyung: The voters have to grow up and live with their choices. We saved the voters in Anson because we decided that the fault was more our misjudgment of the timing and of their emotions over resettlement. So whilst the Member for Anson misled and then abandoned the voters of Blair Plain, we soldiered on and served them. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has an uncanny knack of bringing the most elevated of discussions on the future of Singapore to the labyrinthine depths of the backwaters of his mind. 

 are playing this for real. This is not a game. This is an amendment to the Constitution. It requires an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the Members of this House. We are not jokers. We are not here to play a game with the electorate. But we believe the electorate has to grow up and learn and we believe that three Opposition Members, whether they win it or they get the three highest percentages not winning any, will help the learning process. Despite all the irritations, the minor absurdities, the frivolous irrelevant diversions, I think the Member for Anson has served a real constitutional function. We took him through the gamut. He is a lawyer. The Attorney-General has taken him strictly in accordance with the law through every law case, every misdemeanour, every breach of the law that his Party and he have committed. 

  hoiyung: The Members with the help of the Member for Anson as negative example, but his supporters have vanished. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, over the last 2 1/2 years we have witnessed the performance of the Member for Anson. It has been disappointing. He has let down all hopes of his supporters that he would emerge as an Opposition champion. By his own dismal performance, he has pulled down the Opposition castle which he hopes to build with the support of his supporters. In other words, by his own undoing, he has manoeuvred himself to bring about his own downfall. But this does not mean that the failure of the Member for Anson has negatived the need for the presence of other Opposition members. We know that, as has been said earlier, there are still 25% of anti-PAP votes as evidenced by past general elections. Surely amongst this 25% can be found high calibre potential intellectuals who, if they do not contest as independent candidates, will have no obstacles in forming their own Opposition parties because the core of the problem is not the name of the Opposition party but 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, may I remind the Prime Minister and the Government that they were so sure before 31st October 1981. They were absolutely convinced that there was no way - this is quoting the words of, I think, the First Assistant Secretary-General of the Party, now the Minister of Defence - there was no way in which I could get into Parliament through Anson. Those were his words. I am sorry I have to remind him. And not only him. There were other utterances: "Oh, no. There is no way. Anson - we had an 84% majority. How could the Workers' Party change that?" Well, the Workers' Party did not change that. The electorate changed that. The voters of Anson changed that for you. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. I have moved the Second Reading of this Bill which seeks to give the Opposition three Members. I am now hearing an account of the autobiography of the Member for Anson. If it is relevant to the amendment, I would listen to it. 

    What is the basic premise of this Bill? I believe it is this. That the public, having experienced 25 years of PAP MPs, desire to have PAP MPs for reasons which I shall give shortly, but they also want some Opposition voices in Parliament. But the question, Sir, is whether the Bill would encourage more frivolous votes for the Opposition and to what effect. Are we going to reproduce people like the Member for Anson in this House? If one 

  The Minister of State for Culture (Maj Fong Sip Chee): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise in support of the proposal to amend the Constitution as moved by the Prime Minister. Sir, any amendment to the Constitution is a serious business. It is sad that it was given the kind of dressing earlier by the Member for Anson. A question of principle is involved. Indeed, more than a principle is involved. The question is whether the principle is based on the correct premise. I believe it is. Therefore, the next question is: Has the concept and the practice of democracy been infringed? The answer is decidedly no. If anything, Sir, it improves and fortifies the institution of Parliament. 

    The Member for Anson is living under the illusion that the PAP MPs must necessarily follow all policies, rightly or wrongly, of the Government. He does not understand that PAP MPs have frequently been very vigorous, even pungent, in the discussions they have with Ministers over certain Government policies. 

 and fourthly, non-constituency MPs are not second-class MPs, as the Member for Anson has said earlier. They are elected. They are elected on a certain provision in the Constitution or elected on those conditions, if one insists on describing them as such. 

    Sir, I do not want to burden the House with a discussion on the concept of democracy. Suffice it to say, a brief run-through may be necessary. What is democracy? It is demos and kratos. I do not know Greek. I sought some references. "Demos" means people, "kratos" means rule. People's rule. That is what democracy is all about. The concept of democracy as envisioned by Aristotle in his very primitive concept has come a long way through the ages. But the basic concept has not been changed. However, what Aristotle conceptualized in his time had evolved in different manifestations through different systems, as the Prime Minister said, "tailored" to meet the peculiarities or idiosyncrasies of a given people or given community. Therefore, many systems have been devised to give life and meaning to that basic concept. A new element is that the modern concept of democracy is based on universal suffrage and not a minority democracy, as in the days of Plato and Aristotle, when only about 10% of the citizenry could afford the time and the luxury to indulge in public affairs, with a big chunk of the population still living under slavery. Those were the days of Plato and Aristotle and those were the days which the Member for Anson might imagine that we Singaporeans are now suffering from. 

    Now, Singapore follows the Westminster model, yet not completely duplicating it. It is a fact but which the Member for Anson has much to belly-ache about. In the first place, Sir, none of the constitutions in the established democracies says that there must be Opposition in Parliament or in the legislature. Nor did Aristotle himself say this in his very pure and primitive form of democracy. So democracy does not stipulate that there must be Opposition in Parliament as of right. They are not there as of right. Who are the people to say that there must be Opposition in Parliament in order that you can have democracy? Only the Opposition members themselves say so. They have infringed the concept. 

    Of course, Sir, constructive Opposition can enhance the value of the system. Sadly, very sadly, it is in this area of constructiveness that the Opposition has been found to be very sorely wanting. Opposition parties we do have. I thought it was 16. I made a check - the Prime Minister came out this afternoon and said there were 20 on the register - and each of them is headed by people of all shades: character and integrity. Even the Workers Party, Sir, was resuscitated. Formed in 1957 in time for the City Council election, four members were elected. Later, a member was ordered by the Communists to resign to create a by-election. That member's son, Sir, is one of the latest President's scholars, a Workers' Party member. The by-election in 1958, which I had canvassed, was a bloody by-election. Parangs were used. I would have appreciated if the fight was confined to speeches, perhaps with the beautiful diction of the Member for Anson. But that was not the case. People were chased around the streets. That was what opposition was all about. 

 itself. May I caution the Member for Anson? It was not the first time that the people of Anson had rejected the PAP. But when they came back, they came back in solid numbers. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: Do take note of that. The fact that the Opposition parties failed to win a seat in this House was not taken as their inadequacy. Instead the PAP was faulted for their failure. There have been complaints in the House about not enough time for election campaigns. After three years, the Member for Anson should realize that an election campaign is not fought over nine days. It is fought over four years. And an election is not fought in this House, however beautiful the speech. Election is fought right on the ground. He complained earlier that the SBC - I have the privilege to oversee this portfolio - has not given him enough publicity. He was interviewed on television, Sir, merely a few days ago on the Feedback programme. One out of 75, he demands 50% of the time. I made a calculation. The press gave the Member for Anson 0.2% or 0.3% more coverage than our PAP Backbenchers. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: I think otherwise. I think the press should publish, verbatim, every word the Member for Anson utters in this House. That would do us a great service. 

    The Opposition party abdicated their responsibility at that crucial point of time. I looked through the election statistics. In the 1968 general elections, there were 58 seats. 51 were returned unopposed. Of the remaining 7 seats, 5 were contested by independents and 2 by the Workers' Party. In 1968, long before the medicine man resuscitated the Party. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: In 1972, Sir, there was an improvement. Again, thanks to the Member for Anson who joined the party, better showing this time. Out of 65 seats --- 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: All the talk now, all the bravado by the Member for Anson claiming to speak on behalf of the Opposition Parties - I do not know whether Mr Chiam See Tong would agree to that proposition or that claim - all this talk will not be able to exonerate them for their disgraceful abdication of duty, for their disgraceful disservice to Singapore. They abdicated. And now, what happens when the Member for Anson found the favour of a few hundred voters to earn his seat in this House? What happens? When we have no Opposition, we were accused of all kinds of crime. When we won all the seats, insinuations abound. Now that we have an Opposition in Parliament, poison darts continued to be thrown at the PAP, and not even the Member for Anson has accused us that the election has been rigged. Indeed, it will be the height of his folly if he does that. He has been hailed as the champion of democracy. So he has a Democracy Day in Anson. He was the underdog. I do not know - again, when it comes to words - which part of the word would describe the Member for Anson best. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson does not know that even before he took his seat in this House, there was a meeting - no secret has been let out, Sir - among the PAP MPs, not PAP MPs huddled as he said earlier - was it "huddled" that he used? There was a meeting called for the PAP MPs, and MPs were advised to treat the Member for Anson for what he is or what his arguments are worth. "Treat him as an Opposition. Do not go out of the way". And the poor Member for Chai Chee, Sir, was pulled aside by none other than the Minister for Law, a person known to be a very fair man - a gentleman of the Bar, he 

 was given the title when he was practising - and he Fong, lay off that man." That is the reason why until today I have not really crossed swords with the Member for Anson. How fair does the Member for Anson expect us to treat him? And it will do him good, Sir, if he knows that there is a limit - a limit to playing the underdog. You expect us to cut you down? Some Members here would have dons so with great pleasure, of course. But no. We were told to treat him for what he is worth, and I was asked to leave that man alone. Let him find his feet. He has found his feet, wobbling feet. In the process, Sir, infantilism has been glorified as heroic stunts, ignorance not very cleverly disguised as wisdom, and falsehood peddled as truth. Folly has been accorded sympathy. Hypocrisy passed off as sincerity. People of dubious character hailed as leaders of men. Singaporeans know better how to judge. 

 Firstly, Sir, if the Opposition succeeds in winning whatever number of seats they can, so be it. But if they win less than three, or none, then this proposed provision in the Constitution will find its value. In this exercise of democracy, it is the usefulness that we recognize, certainly not for want of it. What are the alternatives? When this proposal was preferred publicly, it attracted a wide variety of reactions. The immediate reaction, not surprisingly, Sir, was ons of astonishment, Critics hardly believed that it was anything but arrogance on the part of the PAP, as the Member for Anson has alleged in this House earlier. They wanted full-fledged MPs, duly elected. Of course, if any candidate or candidates other than the PAP win the elections, good luck to them. However, non-constituency MPs are also elected in that their presence in this House will be under the provision of the Constitution. They are elected in that process, and as such they too earn their place in this House according to that provision. 

 Member accuses me of being a communalist because I speak Malay? You cannot even quote an idiom in this House. What you did say in Malay was "Ta' Patut". That is not a Malay idiom. That is a Malay term. I will give the Member for Anson a Malay idiom: "Otak Udang". That is a Malay idiom. Of course, there are people who are more competent and qualified to educate the Member for Anson in this language, in which he is sorely inadequate. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: If the Opposition parties, particularly the Member for Anson's party, can do exactly the same thing as the PAP has done in the serious selection of candidates, then they would have done Singapore a great service. Then Singaporeans will be assured of a credible Opposition, able to take over from the PAP at any given point of time if we do lose out - not because of your credit but because of our default - you would have done Singapore a great service. Unfortunately there is no one for them to select from. Sir, in that process they would have earned the credibility of a serious party. In that process they would have vindicated them- selves of being a collection of people of dubious character. Why not? Do that. My strong advice to the Member for Anson is: do just that. 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: We will do everything possible, all within the law, to have a fair fight and we shall see the Member for Anson having to consider --- 

  Maj Fong Sip Chee: If you want to have another contest with a second-class MP, by all means name the place, name the date. I have accepted your challenge. You have not made the next move. Sir, I do not think that I should waste the time of this House to entertain the Member for Anson. May I, Sir, --- 

    I would have thought that a man who stood in a parliamentary by-election in Anson in 1981 and who gave the people of Anson the impression that he can take on PAP MPs should be able to perform according to the expectations of his electorate. He did not. He got himself reduced from a self-proclaimed heavyweight at the hustings to a featherweight here in Parliament. This raises a question: Could he have gained entry into this Parliament by sheer chance? And this brings me to a point. Performance at the hustings and performance at Parliament can indeed be very different and I must thank the Member for Anson, not on my own behalf, but on behalf of his Opposition colleagues and on behalf of other aspiring politicians who hope to come here and oppose for the sake of opposition, to learn this particular lesson from him. 

    Seen in this context, Sir, I thoroughly support clause 3(b) of the Bill. Singaporeans can assess, Singaporeans can examine these hopefuls. If they are good enough, then Singaporeans may want to vote them in the next time. But in the case of the Member for Anson, I am sorry I have to refer to him because that is the only example I know that exists today, but in the case of the Member for Anson, he has already proven his worth. It is, therefore, really not necessary for him to become a non-constituency MP should he lose his next election. Others may want to take their turn. 

    May I now go on to the points raised by the Member for Anson. I am glad that, for once, he has supported a Bill moved by the Government and his points also are noted. He has commented that confining the jurisdiction of the tribunal to disputes concerning sale of goods and services is rather restrictive. Why not other categories of disputes? As I have said, this is experimental. We will have to see how it works and, with experience, we could consider extending the categories of disputes. But I am not sure whether the example that he mentioned, that is disputes between neighbours in flats, is the kind of dispute that should be brought to the Small Claims Tribunal. Instead of advocating that, he should note that we have Residents' Committees throughout Singapore. We have campaigns of good neighbourliness and courtesy. So perhaps he should come forward and support these campaigns if he is really interested in reducing the incidence of quarrels between neighbours. Going to court may only aggravate the relationship between neighbours. 

    On the other hand, the Member for Anson has forgotten to relate this to clause 42 of the Bill which says: 

    Finally, the point raised by the Member for Anson regarding clause 36 on appeals. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am very surprised that the hon. Member for Anson does not even have an elementary knowledge of how the Housing Board develops a new town. He is the Member for Anson and most of his constituents are staying in HDB estates. I presume that he should know something about his own constituency. 

    Basically, the land is acquired by the HDB for various purposes. If we follow the theory of the hon. Member for Anson, then what he is saying is that if the acquired private land is meant for commercial development - HDB has commercial development - it should be returned to the private landowners so that they can make a lot of money. For the land earmarked for the development of a swimming pool, do we return it to the private landowner and tell him, "Look here, please spend $12 million to build a swimming pool"? I suppose he will say that it is the Government which should spend the money to build the swimming pool. 

    The hon. Member for Anson gives the impression that he is really pro-landowner. I was under the impression that the hon. Member is a socialist. I did not realize that the hon. Member, in fact, is a very conservative capitalist. Where there is money to be made, the landowner should make the money. Where money has to be spent, the Government should spend the money. That is what he is advocating. As regards the piece of land which can be developed for a petrol station, why is it suitable for a petrol station? It is because the HDB brings the population into that area. The HDB develops the new town. The HDB develops the roads and therefore that piece of land can be suitable for a petrol station. Without the HDB spending all the money to bring the population into the new town, that piece of land is totally unsuitable for a petrol station because without the population, there are no cars. The hon. Member is suggesting that after the HDB has put in all these efforts, the landowner should be the one to benefit and not the HDB. I am very surprised. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think the hon. Member for Anson is trying to evade the point which I raised. But since he has raised this point, I will take on his point. In the planning of the land use of the area - 

  The Minister for National Development (Mr Teh Cheang Wan): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the hon. Member has mentioned many times in this House that as a result of the by-election which he won in Anson in October 1981, the HDB building programme has increased considerably - a sort of magical power which the Member has. If indeed the Member has this sort of magical power, I think he will be greatly sought after all over the world, by all the countries which have a serious housing shortage, ie the whole of Africa and Latin America. If the hon. Member has that sort of power, I think there will be a long queue of Ambassadors and Ministers from various countries at his door to invite him to their countries so that their housing programme can be substantially increased and their housing problem can be solved. I would like to tell the Member for Anson that it is not because of him. It is because of the organizational ability of the PAP Government and even then, there is a big number of applications for houses as a result of improvement in income, that we are able to meet the demand. 

    The myth that the hon. Member for Anson tries to create that he has got this magical power is, in fact, totally untrue because I have not seen any foreign ambassador or any minister from other countries queuing up in his office to request him to go to their countries to solve their housing problem. 

  hoiyung: Yes, it is in the newspapers but I said I do not know the details of the case. The First Deputy Prime Minister mentioned earlier that you should not believe everything that is published in the newspapers. He said this to the Member for Whampoa just now. I would like to repeat to the Member for Anson that he should not believe everything that is published in the newspapers. 

    I would like to repeat that our lessees and tenants have the strongest protection under the PAP Members of Parliament. Both the lessees and tenants, in fact, are not helpless, as the Member for Anson is trying to present. Let me just mention that they can appeal to the Housing Board and they can appeal to the Minister. And any person who is not satisfied and who feels that he is aggrieved, he has recourse to the courts. We are ruled by law in Singapore. He can also appeal all the way to the Court of Appeal or even to the Privy Council, if he feels that he is aggrieved. 

    As a lawyer, the hon. Member for Anson must know that it is not easy to bring about a successful prosecution of persons under the various provisions of our Betting Act. Sufficient evidence of the placing of bets must be adduced before you can get a conviction. To make it difficult for the police to prove gambling, bookmakers have resorted to keeping track of bets by using coloured chips, water-melon seeds, Chinese chess counters, buttons, bottle caps, match sticks and all sorts of other ingenious devices. Thus, those persons who are released and not prosecuted due to insufficient evidence cannot be said to be innocent bystanders. 

    Continuing action by the police is necessary, Mr Speaker, if we are to combat this problem. The Member for Anson may be interested to know that a total of 31 public complaints of such illegal gambling activities were made by persons residing in Anson constituency. Instead of supporting the action of the police in stamping out gambling, the hon. Member for Anson has preferred to recite the viewpoint of the illegal bookies. It is they who will swell their takings if police action is inhibited by distortions of the truth put forward by the Member for Anson. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have listened to the hon. Member for Anson. I have answered the question fully. He persists in maintaining . . . now it is not "persons" in the plural but an innocent "person" in the singular . . . if he maintains that innocent persons or an innocent person has been harassed or wrongfully arrested, then if he sincerely believes in this, the question is, why has he not made a written complaint to the Ministry of Home Affairs or to the police, giving particulars as to who, when, where, location and time, so that this can be investigated? And we will investigate. Not to have made any written complaint but to have raised a general question, thereby raising the spectre of innocent persons being trundled off, gives the impression to this House, to me, and certainly to members of the public, that here we are not really hearing a case of a genuine accusation or complaint against the police but just to score a debating or publicity point. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Mr Speaker, Sir, on 19th March 1982 at Question Time, the Member for Anson asked me a supplementary question, following my reply to Question No. 2 on the Order Paper. His question was whether I was aware of a case in the Court of Appeal where the Court held that there need be no enquiry held before a worker is dismissed and whether I would consider taking steps to amend the legislation to put that right. I presume he was then referring to the case of Lim Tow Peng and Another vs the Singapore Bus Services Limited, as reported in 1976 in Vol. 1, Malayan Law Journals at page 254. I have had the oppor- 

    Perhaps the Member for Anson can explain why he misled me and the House when he asked me to consider making an amendment to this section of the Act, when it is clear from the Judgment that no such amendment is necessary. 

    I am not sure which part of the Employment Act that the Member for Anson thought that it was inadequate in this respect. Perhaps he could tell the House the nature of the amendment that he has in mind. If he has difficulty with section 14, I have a copy of the Act here to help him. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Sir, the answer is no, it is not necessary. The Member for Anson, in fact, has misled his client by advising him to refer the matter to the court which has no power to order a reinstatement. If he had advised his client correctly by referring the matter to the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Labour after due inquiry and investigation could make an order of reinstatement free of charge without having to refer it to the court. 

    It is clear from the performance to-date of the Member for Anson that he is prone to present half-truths and untruths and to magnify imagined injustices. 

    I think the Member for Anson should be the first to bear witness that the ballot in Singapore is secret and fair. The people of Singapore have decided through many past elections that what they are interested in is the substance of good government and not merely in the form which is what the Member for Anson seems to be so obsessed with. 

    The Member for Anson can make known his views. He is free to make known his views and that of his party in Parliament here. He can give press conferences, tell fables to foreign correspondents or hold meetings of his party members. Incidentally, Sir, lately there have been a spate of articles where foreign correspondents have been quoting "local experts", and 

    Two points raised by the Member for Anson require answering. First, he asked whether the NTUC would send him a set of the regulations governing the elections. I would say this to him. Some days ago he offered to show the Member for Khe Bong a list. He subsequently retracted and invited the Member for Khe Bong to go to his office. Today, he wants regulations governing the NTUC elections sent to him. I would have thought that a very easy and pleasant way of finding out what it is all about is to go to the National Library, get a copy of the NTUC Constitution and he can have the full facts there if he does not want to spend the bus fare or bother to walk to the NTUC. We would, in fact, be very glad to give him a copy of the Constitution, and I can assure him that we do not even charge a dollar, which the Workers Party does for the Workers Party manifesto. 

 press, I think, asking the Member for Anson whether he would be staying in Anson for long and, if so, for how long. I suspect, to-date, no answer has been given. I think I am correct here - the answer has been given today. He would not be staying in Anson long. I think he is going to Bukit Merah the next round. I would welcome him there. 

 the Singapore People's Liberation Organization arrested on the 9th and 10th January 1982 were Workers Party members. 10 people were arrested and five were members of the Workers Part%, ,. The members of the SPLO chose the meeting in connection with Prophet Muhammad's Birthday celebration in the National Stadium on 9th January, the same date as the date on which the Workers Party wanted to hold its rally, for the distribution of inflammatory pamphlets. Fortunately, they were apprehended before they could cause mischief. If the Workers Party rally had been held on the same day, it is obvious that five of the 10 who were members of the Workers Party would have seen the Workers Party rally as a target for them to cause mischief. Sir, we have no confidence in the assurance of the Member for Anson that he knows what is going on in his party or that he can control his members. 

  Encik Mansor Haji Sukaimi: - where a Member of the House has made reference to the fact that there are people in Singapore who are said to be starving. I do not want to make an issue with the hon. Member for Anson, but I think his statement is a very serious statement and I wonder whether the Minister has anything to say on this point. I am sure, as the Ministry of Social Affairs is concerned with social service, the Minister would be in the best position to know who are the people in Singapore who are really starving. 

    Sir, I would have preferred if the Member for Kampong Kembangan had submitted a Question for Oral Answer, for it would then give me an opportunity to give the Member for Anson a really good reply. But never mind, Sir. I was so angered and disgusted by the article that, I think, I can give just as good a reply, if not better, speaking off the cuff. 

    "'But someone must say," he said, [he, referring to the Member for Anson], "that there are 5,000 detained people in Singapore who have not had a trial. People don't really know what is happening in Singapore. They see the clean streets and tall buildings and they don't know people are starving here." ' 

  hoiyung: But should we be surprised by such portrayal, by such description of Singapore from the Member for Anson? I am not surprised, especially after I have watched his conduct in this House during the current sittings. 

    Before I proceed to answer the Member for Kampong Kembangan, Sir, I would like to ask the Member for Anson one simple, straightforward question. Did he or did he not say or write those words which I have just read? Yes or no? That is all I am asking. He can answer later. 

    My Ministry runs four welfare homes with a total capacity of about 1,400 beds to cater to the needs of the destitutes. In addition, voluntary and religious welfare organizations provide between 2,100 and 2,200 beds in institutions run by them. Sir, we are mindful that most of these destitutes, having migrated to Singapore in the first half of the century, unaccompanied by their families, have contributed their fair share to the development of Singapore. Now that they have lost the ability to look after themselves, it is our duty to make sure that their basic needs are met. So, Sir, these "starving hordes" can only exist in the fertile imagination of the Member for Anson. It occurs to me that otherwise these people would have offered their services to the many employers who are having to recruit labour from other countries. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Sir, first, I would like to answer the Member for Anson as to the waiting list for admission to the existing three Homes for the Aged Sick. 

  hoiyung: Waiting list? Sir, there is no waiting list. There are vacancies. Maybe I would like to join my colleague, the Minister for Health when he was debating on the Woodbridge Hospital, in asking if the Member for Anson would care to apply for admission to any one of these Homes. He can get a place there. 

    The second issue raised by the Member for Anson was to appeal for public utilities consumed at voluntary homes to be charged domestic rates instead of commercial rates. This matter has been referred to my Ministry time and again. 

    The last point raised by the Member for Anson was on the chronic sick. 

  hoiyung: Supportive services. I knew he did not have time to take it up yesterday. But nevertheless, I will reply on behalf of my colleague, the Minister for Health. Sir, my Ministry is aware of the problem brought up to this House by the Member for Anson, and is presently considering a proposal in conjunction with the Ministry of Health to renovate a total of 25 Trafalgar Huts and the vacated Lorong Buang Kok Government School situated next to the Trafalgar Hospital to house this group of persons. Fifteen of the 25 huts had already been renovated at a cost of $103,300 by the Ministry of Health. The renovations involved the installation of heat-resistant ceilings, the replacement of the electrical wiring system and general repainting of the premises. When completed, these Huts are expected to house about 400 such persons. A paper on this proposal including staff requirements had been sent to the Ministry of Finance. 

  The Minister for Health and Second Minister of Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Sir, perhaps I could answer the point. It concerns my Ministry more than the Ministry of Social Affairs. There is a Home Nursing Foundation where about 60 nurses are available to attend to the needs of non-ambulant aged parents who are in the circumstances described by the Member for Anson. The Home Nursing Service is available to people who belong to this group where their own children are unable to look after them for personal reasons. 

 formed me or the Member for Anson has been misled by the matron, so I will be happy to have the facts from the Member for Anson, because it could be a case of my being misinformed or the Member being misled. 

    I would also assure the Member for Anson that no patient from Woodbridge would be asked to go back to their home unless they are certified by the doctors that it is safe to do so. Sometimes they suffer from relapse and that is because they do not take the drugs which are prescribed to them. The reason for getting the patients to go back to the home environment is, in fact, to help the patients to overcome their mental difficulties. Home environment is all-important to help the mental patients recover from their mental illnesses and if you were to build half-way house it might be defeating the very basis of our treatment which is to get the patients to go back to the home environment where parents, brothers and sisters can help them adjust to society. So I do not think at this stage a half-way house in the treatment of these patients is justifiable. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: I think my colleague, the Minister for Health, has more than adequately replied to the Member for Anson. I have nothing more to add. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Sir, as I have said in my reply earlier on to the Member for Kampong Kembangan, it is the responsibility of my Ministry to care for the under-privileged and handicapped, and this includes the category of disabled persons the Member for Anson has talked about. 

    Sir, for the information of the Member for Anson and for the information of this House, the Singapore Council of Social Service, which is under my Ministry, has, on behalf of the voluntary organizations serving disabled persons, submitted a memorandum to the Ministry of Education on the need for greater Government involvement in the provision of special education for the disabled. I believe discussion has been held between my colleague, the Hon. Minister of State of Education, with the persons concerned, and things are being considered now. What the Member for Anson has suggested - that we look into the equipment and teacher to student ratio - all these have been taken into account in this memorandum which was submitted by the SCSS on behalf of organizations serving disabled persons. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the Member for Anson is in the habit of asking this question in the very last minute available. I have invited him to submit a Question for Oral Answer. He has not done so. He seems to choose the dying minutes of the debate to ask this question. I invite him once again to submit a Question for Oral Answer and I will give him a lengthy reply. 

    Personally, Sir, I do not see any ploy or trickery as implied by the Member for Anson in the introduction of this Amendment Bill. The PAP has governed Singapore well and its record is there for everyone to see and there is no need to resort to any devious means. 

    I sincerely hope, Sir, that the Member for Anson and his party would reconsider their position on this issue. Yesterday, the Member for Anson stated that he and his party will not accept the non-constituency seats when offered. Surely, the Member for Anson has enjoyed the glamour and the limelight of being in this House since October 1981 and he would be wise not to spurn this offer. He may regret it later. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson in his rambling, desultory fashion, cast doubts yesterday on whether I meant what the amendment is supposed to mean and whether the words speak for themselves. I chose my words. The amendment was crafted by the Attorney-General's Chambers. I wrote the operative part of my speech myself. 

    Sir, if the Member for Anson and his Workers' Party were really the alternative, then I have to say to Singapore, "This is a non-starter." For it is our duty to expose, demolish, and destroy the Workers' Party and him, because he does not accept the basic premise that we must defend Singapore. He does not accept the SAF; he does not believe in the sovereignty, in the integrity of Singapore. His first platform in 1972 was a Re-Merger of Singapore and Malaysia. And because of that, we moved in this Chamber an amendment --- 

  hoiyung: I did not broadcast. I do not have to broadcast a lie, because telling the truth is the most damaging thing to the Member for Anson. 

    I ask the Member for Anson to ask himself: Would he be better off, first as a citizen, next as a lawyer, third as an aspiring leader of the Opposition, if he had stayed on in Johore Bahru and were a Malaysian citizen? It is just across the Causeway and he has his siblings there. He visits them, I presume. That was where he was brought up, he was schooled. He can throw away his Singapore passport and walk off. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson says, "Postpone it until after the elections." This is rather disingenuous. If he loses, then we can pass it and he can come in. He did not say so. He said, "I am going back to the electorate. There is no such thing as a non-constituency seat." The House needs an Opposition. That is him. But of course if he loses it, there is nothing to prevent us from passing it for him. But passing it now, I will refuse. We shall see. 

    Sir, just a few points to dispose of the Member for Anson's various complaints. He says there is a ban on political parties. There is no ban on him. He can have a party meeting any time in any covered hall. That has been the law. It is part of our history. The PAP abided by that law all the years it was in opposition, before it was the government. It abides by the law even today. There are wilder and fiercer men than him. We are not worried about his Workers' Party mounting a rally of 100,000. I do not think we should dismiss this, and those of us who went through the mangle with the communists do not dismiss them lightly. I know that the Plen is still alive, last heard of in Malaysia. The organization is still there. The rules to prevent any resurgence must stay in place. They have not given up and the Malaysians take them seriously, and they take very seriously China's moral support for the CPM. I think we should do well to take our position seriously and take the CPM seriously too. They look weak today. I hope they will continue to be weak. You have street corner meetings, open air night markets. We had running fights with Barisan. Endless. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not a man with conceit. I usually prepare my work, got my thoughts together before I expound. Hence, he will see careful notation. If he wants his Workers' Party programme published, and he has got a great five-year plan, there is nothing to prevent him from buying advertising space. People do that regularly. I read it in the International Herald Tribune. I am sure the Straits Times and Monitor will publish it. 

    Then he wants an Elections Commission in which the Opposition will take part. That is a red-herring. No Opposition takes part in any Elections Commission. It is appointed by the government. President Marcos has appointed an Elections Commission, and' the Opposition in the Philippines say that he rigged it. The Member for Anson wants me, of course, to appoint him on to the Elections Commission. But if I appoint an Elections Commission without him, then he says I have rigged it. Is he suggesting for one moment that the elections had been rigged? We fought, we won, under the same rules. The last Government was in charge. They ran it. We fought them. We won it. And if he has got support, he will win it. Let us not have red-herrings. 

  Mr Speaker: To prevent further interruption from the Member for Anson, I suggest we give the Prime Minister another 15 minutes as provided by the Standing Order. 

    The Member for Anson wants to know why a non-constituency Member should not vote on a motion of no confidence, Money Bills and other things. There is nothing to prevent more than half the Members of this House, when they disagree with the government, to gather 

    I will give the Member for Anson my other rebuttals through the press since he does not want to give me the time. 

    Our history has shaped us, including the clownish stupidities and idiocies of people more ferocious than the Member for Anson. We have infinite patience. In the end, we track them down. We have great determination. We learnt it. There is no other way. Just contain yourself. Wait, sooner or later, the time will come when a person is thoroughly exposed and totally destroyed. 

Lee Yiok Seng               Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    'Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, 1965 did not see such an amendment. He goes by what he reads. The Member for Anson, as a member of the learned profession, should not go by what he reads in the press. The legislation on elections was governed by lows which were promulgated in 1959, and I remember distinctly that when the then Member for Sembawang died in August of 1962, we did not have to hold an election because there was an evenly divided House of 25 Members on each side until we held the General Elections in September 1963.' 

Tan, Augustine H.H.          Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  Prof. Jayakumar: I think you are quite right, Sir, in assuming that there is no merit in this amendment but nevertheless for the record, I ought to reply to the Member for Anson. He has raised what he thought is a great constitutional issue. I completely oppose the amendment and he 

    He is right in saying that the Constitution (Amendment) Bill does not have the force of law until it is assented. There is no quarrel with that. But that does not mean that, until that is assented to, Parliament cannot consider any other Bill. This Bill, after it has been taken through the Second and Third Readings, also does not have the force of law until it is assented to. Both Bills will be presented for assent as required by the Constitution, and only when all these stages have been completed can the Member for Anson ask, and address himself to, the question whether the provisions of the Constitution have been violated. As I have said, we have taken the opinion from the Attorney-General's Chambers. There is no violation of the Constitution or the Standing Orders in taking this Parliamentary Elections (Amendment) Bill through Second and Third Readings after the Constitution (Amendment) Bill has been taken through its Second and Third Readings as we have just seen. Between the great exposition on constitutional law of the Member for Anson and the learned considered opinion of the Attorney-General's Chambers, I think Members will agree with me that it is more prudent, safer and wiser to rely on the opinions of the Attorney-General's Chambers. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am no lawyer. But I simply cannot follow the argument advanced by the Member for Anson. 

Lee Yock Suan            Jeyaretnam, J.B.

Lee Yock Suan               Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the first point raised by the Member for Anson is: why is this necessary; is there a dearth of local lawyers since we are opening the door wide to all and sundry? He finds this objectionable. I thought, in my Second Reading speech just now, Sir, I have set out the rationale quite clearly. The issue is not whether there is a dearth or whether there are adequate numbers. The issue really lies with all sectors, the public sector and the private sector. Singapore has managed to reach its present stage of development because we have never practised a closed-shop policy. We have extended our arms to talented and skilled persons coming into Singapore, joining hands with Singaporeans, establishing roots, and this has added and widened our pool of skilled persons and resources to sustain the economy, the progress and the stability that we have had. 

    The years ahead of us are full of challenges. The question is, how do we go forward? We must continue with the same policy in the public sector or private sector. This has been an important ingredient of our success in the past, specifically with regard to lawyers. Whether there is a dearth or not, whether there are adequate numbers in terms of quantity, is not the issue. The question is this: The Member for Anson says that admitting these foreign talented and skilled persons will be to the detriment of local Singaporeans. I do not think so. In our policies administered thus far, has the admission to the public sector or private sector of skilled persons been to the detriment or been to the benefit of Singapore? The answer clearly is that it has been not only to the benefit of Singapore but it has also proved indispensable because of the limited pool of talent we have in the various sectors. So also in the professions - medicine, dentistry, architecture, law, and what-have-you. The injection of good brains from abroad can have but only one consequence, and that is, to inject new blood, new talent, in various sectors, specialized sectors, general aspects of legal practice, and this will give a further boost to the skills that are available in our legal profession. He says we are letting in 

    The Member for Anson talks about those who are unable to go to the University for financial reasons. I think the Minister of State of Education will be able to tell him that there is no lack of financial bursaries or scholarships available for a person who is able to get admission to the University but who faces financial difficulties to take up the offer. 

    The trend in many countries, Sir, if the Member for Anson does not know, is that admission to the legal profession is to be primarily available through the University graduating process. And also in Singapore this should be the main route of entry. 

    On the point raised by the hon. Member for Anson, this is clearly a non-issue. The Government has declared its policy quite clearly - that Government will be responsible for providing housing for all Singaporeans at a price within the reach or affordability of the people of Singapore. Two days ago I gave an assurance to hon. Members that those HDB residents on the waiting list will get their flats by 1985. There is no question that the HDB will slow down its programme of public housing. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to speak in full support of the amendment Bill moved by the Hon. Minister for Home Affairs. First, at the outset, may I say that I am no lawyer, neither am I a student of law. But I cannot agree with the Member for Anson for what he has said pertaining to the right of Parliament to prescribe the necessary laws for the Judiciary to act upon. 

    And also, before I could answer you on another point, the Member for Anson has been helpful in trying to answer for me. He mentioned the Probation of Offenders Act which allows the Magistrate the discretion with regard to young people aged 16 and below. 

  hoiyung: And also those above 16 years old - he has such a discretion. But that is the existing law. I cannot say in the future whether we have to amend that law. I think it will depend on how this present legislation operates. If it operates well, that will be sufficient because the objective, as everybody agrees, is to deter criminals. From the tons of the Member for Anson, I think he also accepts the point that we must deter criminals. 

    Let me now turn to the Member for Anson. He was making a lot of play on the taking away of the fundamental principles of giving the courts discretion in sentencing. This is only a minimum sentence. There still remains a very wide discretion on the part of the courts to determine the appropriate sentence. But what we are doing here is just to provide certain guidelines which Parliament, as the legislative body representing the people of Singapore, has a duty if it thinks fit to provide such guidelines. And that in no way interferes with the administration of justice. 

    The Member for Anson said Lady Barbara Wootton's lecture was with regard to lay justices. I think he is wrong. It covers all the magistracy in the UK. It does not only refer to lay justices. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson's long repetitive exposition has espoused the virtues of the rule of law. I do not disagree that, as far as the rule of law is concerned, there are virtues to have the rule of law. In Singapore we do have the rule of law. But his version of the rule of law may be quite different from my version of the rule of law.' 

    At the same time, the Member for Anson says that he is against lawlessness, criminals, secret societies and so on. I think he is quite hypocritical when he says these things. Because I have stated quite clearly in my address in moving the Second Reading of the Bill to extend the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act that we need these provisions. Otherwise, we will not be able to suppress secret society activities. Because of fear of reprisals by the victims, we will not be able to prosecute criminals, and drug traffickers by using the normal procedure under the Criminal Procedure Code. 

    The Member for Anson says, "Why is that?", although he understands that we cannot bring up the victims as witnesses before the Advisory Committee. He says, "Why not Police officers?" The answer is quite simple, if he is honest about it. If the police officers were to appear and be cross-examined in the proceedings of the Advisory Committee, then it will defeat the whole purpose of this Act. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Speaker, Sir, the reply from the Member for Anson is just begging the question. The very reason why we are here to renew this Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act is that we can effectively take care of criminals - 

  hoiyung: The man was acquitted because the ordinary rules of criminal procedure had to be applied. The rule of admissibility of evidence has to be applied to cases of drug traffickers and criminals who intimidate witnesses. And this case which the Member for Anson has applied is a case of intimidation of witnesses, then of course you cannot get a conviction, and these are the very cases where the provisions of the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act are designed for. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has raised three points. The first point relates to the provisions seeking to amend the existing provisions on corrective training and preventive detention. I think he has failed, while looking at the Bill, to look at the existing provisions. If he looks at the existing provisions, he will find that the approach is to provide a minimum and - no provision is given in the existing law which has been in operation for some time for the decision to be made by a Board. The existing provisions provide for less than a certain number of years - not less than three years and not more than seven years in the case of corrective training; and not less than five and not more than 14 years in the case of preventive detention. So the approach taken is similar. What we have decided is, after examination of the crime pattern which has been spelt out in detail by the Minister for Home Affairs, to raise the minimum period. That is all that has been done. We have not changed the basic approach and philosophy. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Pasir Panjang is normally a calm and patient man. I have never seen him lose his temper. But he was rather angry with some of the comments made by the Member for Anson, and I think he rightly stood up to state his views in this House. The unfortunate thing was, of course, that the Member for Anson decided that he did 

    The Member for Anson has, as usual, not done his homework and he was not talking about the Employment (Amendment) Bill before us but rather repeating what he has mentioned many times in the past in this House. The only relevant point which we may term "relevant" was his view of the Employment Act. He made out that the Employment Act is a betrayal of the workers of Singapore. Again, he has got all his facts wrong. 

    We can write beautiful Employment Acts giving workers all kinds of benefits. But what would be the use of such legislation if there are no jobs. The Member for Anson 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, in a sense it may not be necessary for me to reply to the Member for Anson because effective rebuttals have been given eloquently by the Member for Pasir Panjang as well as the Member for Kebun Baru. I would say that his professed concern for workers' rights is today matched by his total lack of interest in what transpires in the proceedings on this Bill after he spoke. The fact that he left is typical of the depth of his concern for the rights of workers. 

    In this connection, I think all those foreign critics or the Member for Anson might do well to read what Dr Winsemius has written in his published interviews in our press as to what is the real right when we talk about rights of workers. I remember, in this interview which was published in the local press, he said that in his view all the socialists in the International should read the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and if I may quote him: 

    In Singapore, Sir, for many years we have managed to have economic progress and stability and have achieved a situation of full employment, a record which very few other countries, developed or developing, can boast about. What is our task now? Our task is to go forward. The question. is not whether this Bill is pro-employer or pro-employee, as the Member for Anson tried to project it. This is not the approach. This Bill is pro-Singapore, is pro-progress and advancement; it is anti-unemployment, anti-deterioration of our economy. 

    The Member for Anson raised several other topics. I do not intend to go into them, except one. On his resurrecting his point about the right to inquiry under section 14, this was a subject of debate between him and the previous Minister for Labour. The record is in the Hansard at the sitting on 19th March 1982. He complained then, as he complains now, that a court had decided or interpreted the provision in a particular way and he wants us in Parliament to change it. He blows hot and cold. Only this morning, in the discussion of the Criminal Law legislation, he made ardent pleas that the judicial discretion of the courts should not be tampered with. And he bemoaned the fact that Parliament was, in his interpretation, trying to fetter the discretion of the courts. Yet, barely hours later, he comes here and he asks us to overturn the judicial interpretation of the court. This speaks for itself! 

And the earlier part of the paragraph says that this applies to employees who have consented in writing to this new flexible 12-hour working day. On that note, Mr Deputy Speaker, I think I need not spend any more time dealing with the points resurrected by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson regards CPF contributions as an exaction. The Oxford English Dictionary gives the following definition of the word "Exaction":- 

    The Member for Anson does not understand that in an economy short of labour as a result of fast economic growth, wages must rise and employers who cannot afford to pay higher wages should either improve on their performance or give way to more efficient employers. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson obviously was not listening carefully to my answer. The CPF contribution is a saving. The employee is not giving it up. I have explained earlier that this saving is necessary for security purposes -for his old age and to help him to own a home. Without CPF savings, this home ownership scheme would not have been possible. Singapore will not have achieved the housing programme that we have achieved so far. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I must explain to the Member for Anson that there are some situations where a public applicant would not be due for balloting whereas others with bigger registration numbers would be. 

(Member for Anson)

    That, as it appears that the Member for Anson has committed an offence or offences under section 31 of the Parliament (Privileges, Immunities and Powers) Act (Chapter 49) in that - 

    You will recall, Sir, that on the 17th day of March this year, the Member for Anson asked an Oral Question No. 1 on the Order Paper for the day and the question was: 

    'Will he declare his direct personal pecuniary interest in his line of questioning? In other words, has he got cases of this nature representing non-Singapore citizens regarding application for permanent residence? How many cases has he got, acting as a lawyer outside this House or in the name of his firm "J.B. Jeyaretnam and Company"? Can he declare his interest?' 

    The Member for Anson replied, and again I quote -- 

    The Minister for Home Affairs then produced a letter from the legal firm of J.B. Jeyaretnam & Co. of which the Member is the sole proprietor. The letter read:- 

    Two days later, on the 19th day of March 1982, the Member for Anson once again took part in the discussion of the same or similar matter in this House. This was in the debate in the Committee of Supply on Head Q of the Main and Development Estimates of Expenditure for the financial year 1st April 1982 to 31st March 1983. This is reported in our Official Report, Volume 41, No. 13, at col. 1281. 

    The Member for Anson may have an explanation. If he has, hon. Members will be pleased to hear him. The Member is new in this House and may not have been conversant with all our Standing Orders, rules and regulations and the Act which sets out our powers, privileges and immunities. Perhaps he may wish to express his regrets in which case I will not proceed with the resolution. 

    As far as this House is concerned, we are not preventing the Member for Anson from speaking. The particular section does not. He can speak on the subject provided he declares his interest, whatever direct personal pecuniary interest means. The reason for this Motion is that the complaint against the Member is more serious than the one before the Committee of Privileges. It is more serious because, first, he was asked whether he had acted as an advocate and solicitor in any of these matters. His reply: 

  Mr Rajaratnam: No, Sir. References have certainly been made here which involved me. First, may I declare my personal and pecuniary interest in this matter which, as the hon. Member for Anson has learned, is the proper thing to do. I understand the hon. Member for Anson to have said, in reference to this matter before the House, that this Bill is being brought about to protect me in a lawsuit which I did not take but which he has taken against me. The distinguished hon. Member for Anson has made it a practice to take on lawsuits which he does not have a win. 

  hoiyung: May I finish my speech? - and which has the distinction of being the first political party in this country or in any other country which has been brought to a state of bankruptcy by a politician. I know of no political party in the world which has been put in the hands of a Receiver and no politician has accomplished this miraculous feat. What I am here for is to make it quite clear to the hon. Member for Anson that this Bill has nothing to do with retrieving me from a lawsuit which he has taken against me, since he has made reference to this particular case. I did not make any reference. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, let me respond to the points raised by the Member for Anson. But before I do so, I think we should place on record certain important aspects of his response. I think we should place on record that he has never denied that his party instituted proceedings. He has never denied that he lost the proceedings. He has never denied that his Party refused to comply with the Orders of the court on costs, and he has not denied that notwithstanding the deliberate non-compliance with orders for costs in one proceeding, his society, nevertheless, proceeded to institute yet another proceeding . . .let's disregard who was the other party. 

    The Second Deputy Prime Minister (Foreign Affairs) has already replied to his first point, namely, that the Member for Anson has the impression that this legislation is directed against his political party and designed for one particular pending suit. Anyone who reads the amending Bill, and one does not have to be a lawyer to understand this, anyone who reads the amending Bill will see that it covers all societies which come under the ambit of the Societies Act. That is my first observation - that it is a complete untruth to say that this legislation is directed against one party. Any other society which falls within the purview of the proposed section 35A (1) will be covered by the intent and purport of this amending Bill. 

  hoiyung: Order 23 and the rules thereunder. Let me say, Mr Speaker, Sir, that we are not only aware but we have taken the precaution of being advised by the Attorney-General. Given a choice of having to choose between the opinion of the Attorney-General and the expert opinion of the distinguished Member for Anson, I accept, of course, the opinion of the Attorney-General who has researched this matter and not given it on the spot. 

    'But before I could explain the relevancy, I was interrupted by the Member for Anson, who stood up and denied that he had ever said anything about supplying me with such a list. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has realized that he was trapped by his own stupidity and arrogance by offering to supply me with the list and has now turned and twisted his own words by saying that what he meant was to invite me to examine the list in his office. Sir, he has eaten back his words, and this is not the first time. When he encountered our Prime Minister the first time, this was what the Prime Minister described of the man: "the unseemly, disgusting . . ." 

    'Since he has eaten back his words, I do not intend to argue with him further on this issue, but I wish to [this is where I am complaining of, Mr Speaker, Sir,] invite the hon. Members in this House, including the Member for Anson and the Press in the Gallery [this is where he rolled his eyes to the Press] to read the Hansard of last Friday's sitting on 19th March, 1982, as well as the Sitting yesterday, in order to testify who is lying and who is telling the truth.' 

  Mr Hon Sui Sen: The Member for Anson's question is deliberately misleading. It was not, to quote the Member, "found necessary to differentiate in the implementation date" for the "Professional and Upper Divisions of the Civil Service and those in the lower Divisions." The Professional Services Review Committee was set up to specifically look at the salaries and terms and conditions of service for the Administrative and Professional Services. The Committee came out with its recommendations which were accepted by Government and announced in this House on 3rd March 1982. In accordance with the long established practice adopted by the Finance Ministry and accepted by the various civil service unions, implementation was with effect from 1st April 1982 which is the first of the month following the official acceptance and announcement of the recommendations. 

    It will be seen from this that both the Division IV and Daily Rated grades shared the same implementation date of 1st April 1982 as the Administrative and Professional Services and there was no discrimination, intended or otherwise, between the upper and lower divisions as the Member for Anson attempts to make out. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the only instance in the past 10 years where the Official Receiver was so appointed as Receiver was the case of the Workers' Party. It was not a question of the Official Receiver accepting appointment. He was ordered to be appointed Receiver by an Order of Court dated 3rd June, 1982, upon the application of Mr Tay Boon Too, a creditor of the Workers' Party, who had not been paid his legal costs for many years. In the past 10 years or more, no other political party has kept its bank accounts with so small a sum as $18.47 in order to avoid paying costs it owed, thus making it necessary for this legal procedure to be invoked. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson is raising questions of detail here which properly ought to have been raised in the Court hearing at the appropriate time. He should let us know whether he had raised legal objections when these Court hearings came out. Did he object to the appointment of the Official Receiver as Receiver? If not, why is he now trying to convert this Chamber into an Appellate Court for having failed to raise these questions in the Court? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, although I believe that these are points which he ought to have raised but failed to raise in the Court hearing, let me answer his point. It might have been possible for some other Receiver to have been appointed. I do not know why the litigant here had applied for the Official Receiver. My Ministry was not involved in this. But let me say that the Member for Anson, far from complaining, in fact, should express his gratitude because I am informed that the costs which he had to pay for the Official Receiver's functions were far cheaper than would have been the case if any other accountant or other official in the private sector had been appointed. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson sincerely believes that this is a case which involves corruption, can I ask him whether he has lodged a complaint with the police so that it can be investigated, and when did he lodge the complaint? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, as I have said, the Member for Anson has obviously discovered that he ought to have made certain points in the court regardless of whether he would have succeeded. He failed to do so. He has now come to this House with two purposes, either to convert this into an appellate court or to convert it into a law tutorial classroom to receive free legal tuition. And I think either of these purposes would be contrary to our Standing Orders. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think there is any corruption at the Anson Community Centre. If the Member for Anson knows of any, his duty is to report it to the CPIB. I assure him that it will be thoroughly investigated. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has an obsession that corruption takes place in high places in the government. Had he asked me about activities in the Anson Community Centre being organized by the PAP, I would have made inquiries to ensure whether any branch member of the PAP had been so involved. I have made no such inquiries. I can neither affirm nor deny. I have no knowledge. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson suffers from an irresistible urge to stick his jaw out, time after time after time. I do not want to be charged for being cruel to hapless Members of Parliament, I do suggest that he should desist from making frivolous and trivial accusations. If he does not know how he won Anson, I suggest he re-reads my analysis of why the PAP lost Anson. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has another irresistible urge, the desire to know the obvious. All activities of this Government, the moment it has won an election, are designed to bring about 

  Mr Speaker: I believe there is also going to be another amendment. So I think it may be convenient if the debate on the Motion and on the amendment by the Member for Kebun Baru, and also an amendment later on by the Member for Anson, be proceeded with under the provisions of the proviso to Standing Order 40, paragraph (1). The said proviso to the Standing Order inter alia provides that, 

Is it the wish of hon. Members that debate on the Motion moved by the Minister for Health and the amendments thereto, of the Member for Kebun Baru and the Member for Anson, be proceeded with in accordance with the provisions of the proviso to Standing Order 40(1)? 

  hoiyung: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson has just wasted 20 minutes of our time. I thought the Member was going to talk about 25 Years of Nation Building Celebrations. Except for the first one or two minutes of his speech, he has strayed away to other topics of his choice. He is confused. That is his choice. I have only 10 minutes. I shall stick to the subject of 25 Years of Nation Building Celebrations. 

    Singapore, under the rule of the PAP, has made much progress in many fields in the last 25 years. The people of Singapore, the workers of Singapore, have every reason to look to the past with pride because they have contributed to Singapore's success. Every Singaporean knows that all these are the achievements of the people of Singapore under the leadership of the PAP since 1959. It is, therefore, fitting that Singaporeans celebrate 25 years of nation building. Singaporeans are proud of the achievements. We are proud to be Singaporeans. Obviously, the Member for Anson is not proud of what Singaporeans have achieved. He is not proud of Singaporeans. He sees no cause for celebration. Of course, he is entitled to his view and he need not have to take part in the celebrations if he does not feel inclined to do so. 

    Sir, during the last Budget debate, the Member for Anson asked; 'If the Russian navy came in full steam ahead, saying across its bow, "Singapore, here we come", what could we do?' He said that one has to be realistic. It is not difficult to guess what he means. Surrender. Kowtow. He also advised that if there is someone in front of you who is very strong, who is a giant, we should keep off his path and try to be friendly. It is all in the Hansard. If this is the way Singaporeans respond to challenges, then we will not be celebrating Singapore's nation building or National Day in the future. Is this what the Member for Anson is hoping to achieve? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson assumes that we have just started the science of government day before yesterday. The business of government has begun since the earliest tribes foregathered, and the business of representative government in Singapore has evolved since 1955 when I was first elected to this Chamber. There has been no government that has been more strenuous in its efforts in making the mass of the people understand why rules and regulations have been made and are applied fairly, equitably and impartially on everyone. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not a lawyer like the Member for Anson. But, if I may repeat the last part of my answer, what I said was that it is absurd to suggest that these rules deny citizens the fundamental liberties enshrined in the Constitution or that they discriminate against citizens on grounds of race or religion. If the Member for Anson feels strongly that these rules do indeed violate the Constitution, he is free to take this matter to a court of law to let it be decided by the court. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Hon. Minister referred to the infiltration in the early days of the trade union movement - I take it, the 1940s, 1950s - by the Communists and pro-Communists who used the trade union movement, he said, for their ends. Mr Speaker, Sir, reference has been made, not once but several times, by leaders of the Government to those tumultuous days of the 1940s, 1950s and even the 1960s, and the suggestion has been made that we in the Workers' Party want to return to those old days of the 1950s and 1960s when there were wild men running about. Well, Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not know whether there were wild men running about, but I do know that there were a lot of men running about in Singapore in those days in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s. There was a new political party that had just come into existence, Mr Speaker, Sir. There was a lawyer who had just come back from England and he was leading the new party. He was the darling of the trade union movement in those days. He was the idol of the workers. And not only the workers, Mr Speaker, Sir, but the students in the University then, and all for a right cause. May I say here, Mr Speaker, Sir, that I for once cheered what was being done for the workers in Singapore. But it must be galling to the workers today. It must be adding insult to injury that the Government, which came to power on the backs of the workers in 1959, should now do this 

 to the workers in Singapore. They who took the sword on behalf of our workers in Singapore in those days should now turn the sword on the workers themselves. I say, Mr Speaker, Sir, it is a betrayal of our working class and our workers in Singapore to whom, as I said, we owe a great debt. We owe a debt to them not only for being in the forefront of the independence movement for Singapore and which was eventually won for us by them. We also owe them a debt for our present prosperity that we now enjoy. May I say, Sir, that we in the Workers' Party are not ashamed of the role played by the workers in those days. We are not ashamed of what they did for Singapore and what they have done over the years. If anyone is ashamed, it would appear that the Government is ashamed. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, as I said, we owe the workers, our working class in Singapore, a debt. And let me say from this House that this debt will be repaid. We, in the Workers' Party, are committed to repaying this debt that we in Singapore owe to our workers and it shall be repaid, let me assure the workers in Singapore, whatever may happen today. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Point of order, Sir. I think we are referring to the Trade Unions (Amendment) Bill and not the Employment (Amendment) Bill. The hon. Member for Anson should confine himself to this Bill and not other Bills. 

    We have heard a lengthy talk by the Member for Anson. It is all utter rubbish. They are out of date. They are out of time, the changes that have occurred in Singapore. If we expect the Member for Anson to lead Singapore, I think the state of Singapore's economy will be less than $18-plus. The Workers' Party of Singapore - how many workers does he have in his Party? It is high time he changed the name of the Party. How many unions are in support of the Workers' Party? 

  Mr Seah Mui Kok: I say "thank you" to the hon. Member for Anson. This is exactly what I am trying to show him -that he did not confine his talk to the Trade Unions (Amendment) Bill. But now he knows how to jump up. I will confine to trade unions. He has learnt a lesson. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson was saying that the workers of Singapore have lost their rights, and become serfs and slaves. Do not talk nonsense. Be more intelligent. I was the General Secretary of the United Workers of Petroleum Industry for 17 years. There were no strikes at all in the oil company but negotiations, improvement of wages, improvement of conditions of service, improvement of fringe benefits, annual wage supplements from 2 1/2 months to 3 months. Do you mean to say my petroleum workers are serfs? Utter rubbish. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Sir, I rise in support of the Bill, but before I comment directly on the Bill itself I cannot resist answering some of the serious and malicious charges made by the Member for Anson against the trade union movement in Singapore. 

    The Member for Anson is not the first, nor will he be the last, person to make such accusations against the trade union movement in Singapore. Not only today but as far back as 1968 when the trade unions supported the Employment Act, which he mentioned - with certain reservations which were subsequently removed when certain assurances were given by the Government - there were also accusations from people like him that the trade unions in Singapore were sham trade unions and that the trade union leaders sold out the trade union movement. 

    We do not have to go into the arguments as to whether we sold out the trade union movement or the trade union members' interest. I think what has happened in the last 14 years since 1968 till now is an improvement in the standard of living of the workers of Singapore; how the trade union leaders, with courage, stood up and supported policies that are finally in the interest of the workers, in terms of getting them a secure job, good wages, good housing. Today in Singapore, not only do we say so, but people all over the world - I do not know but I am sure the Member for Anson travels a great deal - but I think all over the world people who have visited Singapore and who have read about 

    The Member for Anson has made some scurrilous remarks against the Straits Times for its three very good articles that it put up on these amendments. In those three articles I think it was also pointed out very clearly that, as far as the right to strike is concerned, everybody after reading the Straits Times reports will have no doubt in his mind that the right to strike for the 

    The Member said something like the passing of this Bill is the last rite that will completely finish off all the trade unions in Singapore. I think he is being dramatic. He is not only dramatic but he is also not factual because the passing of this Bill will not change how the trade unions have behaved in the last 10 years and how they will behave in the next 10 or 20 years. But there will be this conscious effort to want to cooperate even further. We want to emulate the Japanese, not in everything but there are certain good points about the Japanese. Incidentally, the Member for Anson said that a friend of his mentioned that the Japanese worker is a slave to the employer. 

  Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Alexandra): Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not a trade unionist and it was not my intention to speak on this Bill. But after listening to the speech by the Member for Anson which is all a lot about nothing, I feel compelled to make a few comments in order to dispel the false notions that the hon. Member has tried to propagate by his speech. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson advocates the rights of workers. When you speak of rights, you must also talk of responsibilities, and I say our workers have their rights and they know their responsibilities, responsibilities to themselves, their families and their country. Perhaps he confuses these rights of workers with the free-for-all situation in other countries. Well, our workers are a disciplined lot and we are all proud of them for being so, and they know they have jobs while the rest of the world is wrapped in unemployment. In case he still does not know, there are three million unemployed in Britain, two million in West Germany, 2.2 million in France, half a million in Australia, and we have full employment in Singapore today. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson claims to speak for the destiny of workers in Singapore. One thing I learnt after listening to his speech is that his destiny will not be to lead our workers. 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng (Kebun Baru): Mr Speaker, Sir, my colleague, the Member for Moulmein, has appropriately defined the role of the trade unions in Singapore, and that role is to preserve, to protect and to enhance the welfare of Singapore workers. Throughout its history, organized labour in Singapore, in the form of the NTUC, has always been in tune with the aspirations of the workers; it has always been in the forefront when it came to preserving, protecting and enhancing the welfare of Singaporeans. The Member for Anson claims, in one breath, to be a champion of the workers in Singapore, but in another breath he condemns the NTUC 

 for calling for a boycott. When a Communist union in Australia took protectionist steps against the interests of Singapore workers, the Member for Anson would have us sit idly by and allow ourselves to be trampled over. And he calls this protecting and championing the rights of Singapore workers. 

    Had our trade union leaders uncritically echoed the slogans of their Western counterparts, as the Member for Anson 

    The type of unions which the Member for Anson is thinking of is not relevant to us. In any case, what have they achieved for their workers? They have created more unemployment, more suffering. Whereas in Singapore, in our experience, there is full employment. The quality of life of our workers has improved over the years. So over the past 20 years, we have been following this objective and we will continue to do so. 

    Coming to the question of the right to strike, I think the amendments have not taken this away. Being a lawyer, I should think that the Member for Anson should have carefully read the Trade Unions Act. Part IV of the Act provides for this. He is deliberately trying to confuse the workers on what they have a right to do. He is trying to mislead them. The right to strike still remains and can be one of the objectives of a union. The Bill does not take this away. 

    I would also like to touch on one other point which he made about a statement made by an NTUC official in Israel. This is a case of misreporting by the Jerusalem Post and later taken up by the international press. This officer has written a letter to the Jerusalem Post to put the position right. The Member for Anson should have checked the facts before mentioning them. 

    I will not add to what has already been said by my colleagues in this Chamber, but I would like to give my views on a number of points raised by the Member for Anson. He has stated that in fact in Singapore there is no trade union in the real sense of the word. I admire his dexterity in twisting facts or in diverting attention from the real objectives and the noble aspirations of the people as embodied in the amendment. The real fact which he himself chooses not to see is that in Singapore there exists trade unions a la Singapore. The truth is that in Singapore there exist trade unions which have the characteristics of a Singapore identity. The fact is that in Singapore the workers and employers have realized that the old-type of unions are no longer relevant to the new era in Singapore. That is the real fact which the Member for Anson refuses to see and ignores. 

 trade unions. And if we continue along that model, we will end up like the trade unions in Great Britain which have brought misery upon the workers there. Is the Member for Anson prepared to go back in time? Is not the Member for Anson aware of the proverbial Malay saying, "At every flood the sand is altered"? (The laws and regulations change with every new setup). A changing situation enables us to analyse the new situation. It is only in the concept of change and continuity that we will be able to vouch for our progress and stability. 

    He also stated that Singapore workers are in a state of serfdom or considered as slaves. He forgets that the serfs that he referred to are enjoying a high standard of living, as evidenced by the fact that many of them own flats. Figures from the HDB show that year after year more and more workers from the lower income group own flats, and the percentage will rise from 70% to 80% in the years to come. Do not these workers, whom the Member considers as slaves, own properties, since they own flats? Does the Member for Anson not realize this fact? We say here and now that he deliberately does not want to see the facts staring in his face. Let me remind him that during a previous debate the Minister for Trade and Industry tabled concrete data to show that the level of prosperity of the people of Singapore has risen over the years. And the Member for Anson concluded his speech by charging that the amendment is the last rites for trade unionism in Singapore.-- 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Sir, I would like to thank the various Members of Parliament, except the Member for Anson, for their support of this Bill. I do not intend to dwell 

    Perhaps I should now turn to the points raised by a number of Members on the right of trade unions to strike. The hon. Member for Anson is full of surprises. He surprised me when he opposed the Bill totally while at the same time he submitted an amendment to this Amendment Bill. I thought he was going to support this Bill wholeheartedly with only an amendment to that particular clause 6. But now that he is opposing the Bill, I wonder whether he still wants to proceed with the amendment. Does it mean that if he proceeds with the amendment, he will support the Bill? 

    I would like to explain, especially to the hon. Member for Anson, that removing the objective regarding strike and so on, from the definition of trade unions, does not mean that the rights are removed. It is only the objective that we are referring to. The right to strike, as he has explained himself, 

    The Member for Anson quoted an incident last year, before he was in this House, when I introduced an amendment to the Trade Disputes Act. He must have just simply read what was reported in the press. Obviously he did not read the Bill or the Act himself. My advice to him is that it is dangerous just to rely on the press report alone. The only amendment that I introduced last year was to replace the word "strike" in the Trade Disputes Act with the word "industrial action". That was what the amendment was all about. If he is again serious in proposing the amendment to clause 6 of this Bill, to leave out "Minister" and "High Court by Originating Motion", then, if approved, i.e. if we accept his amendment, it would make this Act totally incomprehensible. I will explain to him later on. 

  hoiyung: Sir, any decision made by the Registrar under clause 6 must be an administrative decision, and any appeal to the Minister from the Registrar's decision and the consequent decision made by the Minister himself must also be an administrative decision. If the hon. Member for Anson says that some fundamental legal rights are involved in these decisions, there is nothing in this Act or in the amendment to prevent anybody from going to the law courts. They can still go to the law courts because there is nothing here which says that the Minister's decision shall be final. Even if the provision says that the Minister's decision shall be final, if any fundamental rights are infringed, any member of the public can still go to the law court for the purpose of asserting those rights. So nothing is really taken away. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong: Sir, looking objectively at the proposed amendment by the Member for Anson, from the trade union's point of view, I have my doubts whether the proposed amendment would really serve to help a trade union in a dispute with the Registrar of Trade Unions over his decisions. 

    I am fully aware that it is always possible for a Registrar of Trade Unions to be unreasonable and to place obstacles in the way of trade unions in their normal functions. It is necessary, therefore, for the Trade Unions Act to provide for a competent authority for appeals against whatever unreasonable decisions made by the Registrar to be overruled. This higher authority can be the Minister in charge, or the High Court as the Member for Anson now proposes. 

    For this reason, I do not think I can support the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. It is implicit in such amendment that the Minister, who is elected by the people of Singapore and is 

    The amendment as proposed by the Member for Anson, if adopted, is likely only to benefit some legal practitioners in terms of case or publicity as their expertise and services will be required by any person, persons or trade unions that are aggrieved by the decision of the Registrar of Trade Unions. 

    I am afraid the Member for Anson is not serious when he proposed his amendment to the Amendment Bill. As I have mentioned just now, even if we were to approve this amendment, a lot of amendments to other provisions of the principal Act would have to be made. But he did not suggest them and, as it stands, I do not see how we can approve or even consider this proposed amendment. 

    The Member for Anson has got quite a number of questions. He objected, first of all, to the Minister's powers. This is part of the general philosophy, I think, which is evident in all our statutory organizations. The Minister in charge of the Act is endowed with powers which are common to all these Acts. I think it would not be possible for changes to be made to this without going against the whole philosophy which has guided us in the drafting of the other Acts. This is perhaps in standard form. So I would suggest that this particular objection cannot be agreed to in this particular Bill without our having to consider its effect also on other statutory boards. So far as I am concerned, the Ministers have exercised their discretion under the various Acts which have constituted the statutory boards and they have performed their duties satisfactorily, and therefore I see no reason why we should make any change. 

    The Member for Anson has also touched on the commercial activity, under clause 6 (c). Such activity may perhaps be necessary when the Board operates its activities of expansion in overseas markets. For example, at a trade exhibition and so on, it may be that an exhibitor may want to show his goods in conjunction with other manufacturers and would want to authorize the Trade Development Board's repre- 

    The hon. Member for Anson must understand that the HDB houses more than 70% of the population and it has more than 400,000 accounts with the people who are living in HDB flats. The HDB also has another 100,000-plus accounts of people who have applied for HDB flats. So altogether there are more than half a million accounts. The HDB spends almost half the Government's Development Estimates, as it stands. I think, by the middle of the year the HDB has borrowed from the Government more than $5,000 million, an outstanding loan. So the accounts is extremely complicating. It is not a simple account like some political party with $18.47. I read in the newspapers that, even then, it has found it very confusing. Just imagine, even with such a small sum, the hon. Member's party finds it very confusing. So the hon. Member should be the first one to understand the problem. When you are involved with more than half a million accounts involving millions of dollars, the accounting cannot be switched in a few months or to switch from one accounting system to another accounting system without creating a confusion. 

    I am not sure whether the hon. Member is really serious in suggesting that the selling price of HDB flats should be its true cost. What is the cost of the HDB flats? Is it the tender price of the flats that the HDB pays to the contractor and also the land cost, and charge the people? If the hon. Member is seriously suggesting that, then perhaps we carry out a pilot scheme for the people in Anson to pay the full cost. So that anybody in Anson who gets a new HDB flat, he pays the full cost. I am quite serious. And if the hon. Member for Anson is seriously suggesting that, then the HDB will charge the actual construction cost because the HDB calls tenders to build flats. There is nothing to hide. We have to pay the building contractor, so much, the sanitary contractor, so much, and the piling contractor, so much, etc. So there is nothing to hide about the construction cost. And also plus the land cost. Land cost, it is very simple. What is the market price of land? Let us take a piece of land which can build 100 flats, and we get the URA to offer it for sale. How many people are prepared to pay for the land to build 100 flats? If the people say they are prepared to pay $5 million, it means that the land cost for each flat is $50,000. Then we add the construction cost, maybe another $30,000 or $40,000. So each unit of 3-room flat to be sold to the people of Anson is $80,000, instead of what we sell in a New Town a 3-room improved flat for $21,000. So for Anson, to follow the hon. Member for Anson's suggestion, it is $80,000. If he is serious, I am prepared to carry out a pilot scheme for his constituents in Anson. They pay the full cost as suggested by the Member. And we can get public accountants to be nominated by the hon. Member, whatever name he suggests, to check or audit the accounts to say, "This is the actual construction cost paid by the HDB." 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: If he is serious, we will carry out a pilot scheme along these lines. These are the points raised by the hon. Member for Anson. 

    But I would like to add that the Government policy on housing has always been to charge the selling price that the people can afford. This has always been the policy of the Government. But since the hon. Member for Anson has suggested a different system, and as I have said earlier, maybe we can carry out an experiment for Anson Constituency along the lines suggested by him. 

    I wish to assure the House that the Government has, in fact, repeatedly ensured that the price of HDB flats will always be within the means of the people. Let us look at the lower income group who cannot even buy HDB flats and who are living in 1 -room rental flats. I would like to say that the monthly rental for the 1 -room improved flat was fixed at $30 in 1966. This is for rental plus service and conservancy charges. Today, 16 years later, this monthly rental is $44, including service and conservancy charges; an increase of only 40% over 16 years. It is common knowledge that the increase in rental for private housing in the last 16 years is easily five to 10 times. Sixteen years ago, perhaps the rental for a terrace house was only $200 or $300. Everybody knows that, including the hon. Member for Anson. Today, how much is the rental for a terrace house? It is 10 times, or at least five to 10 times. Maybe $1,500 to $3,000, depending on the locality. But for public housing, the rental has changed very little. In fact, the Government keeps on losing money because the rental includes service and conservancy charges, which means that the Government is taking care of cleansing work, repairs, redecorations, planting trees, etc. In fact, the $44 rental collected from tenants of 1-room flats by the Government is not even sufficient to pay for the maintenance cost. The rental has been increased by $14 in the last 16 years, from $30 to $44. 

  hoiyung: The Government cannot give the assurance requested by the Member for Anson as it is tantamount to a request that Mr Ho Juan Thai be given immunity from the law. 

    Mr Ho Juan Thai, the defeated Workers' Party (WP) candidate in the 1976 General Elections, had played up gut issues on Chinese language, education and culture during his election campaign. At four different rallies he accused the government of "killing Chinese education" when he knew that the government's policy had all along been to give equal treatment to all four language streams and to encourage bi-lingualism. During a WP rally at Fullerton Square on 14 December 1976, he said in Mandarin: 

    As in other cases like the SPLO, the Workers' Party may have provided Mr Ho with the cover for things less innocent than providing constitutional opposition. 

    If the Member for Anson is interested in helping the Cambodian patriots to free their country of foreign occupation, then how is public discussion of who is supplying arms to the Cambodian liberation forces and the "conditions of their supply" of any help? The Cambodians know who is helping them and how they are being helped. The Vietnamese do not know but would like to know. 

    Vietnam would like to know if arms are being supplied to the resistance forces, who the suppliers are, the kind of arms being supplied, how they are supplied and the conditions of their supply. Public disclosure of such data can only help them. Who does the Member for Anson want to help? 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, I cannot recommend to the President the approval of a Commission to inquire into the matters set out in the question. It is a long question, with five limbs. They cover the six charges standing against Phey Yew Kok in the Criminal District Court - four for criminal breach of trust and two for contravention of the Trade Unions Act. There is a warrant out for his arrest for not answering to bail. I find it difficult to believe that as a lawyer, the Member for Anson is ignorant of the legal improprieties implicit in his suggestion that a Commission of Inquiry to investigate matters which, inter alia, must form part of the evidence on which these charges will rest. 

    As long as there are reasonable prospects of bringing Phey Yew Kok to trial, nothing should be done which can be said to jeopardise the process of law. The Member for Anson is inviting me to investigate the facts, or to appoint a Commission to investigate the facts, of a criminal case which is sub judice when, in his own civil suit, pending on appeal to the Privy Council, he took immediate objection to a completely neutral reference I made in this House to the implications of the outcome for him, without touching on the merits of his appeal. However, not to be the Government's own legal officer, I asked for the opinion of the Attorney-General. In a written opinion, he has advised against the appointment of a Commission of Inquiry. I have made copies (Cols. 465 - 472) and handed them to the Clerk of Parliament for circulation to Honourable Members. 

    As monies misappropriated have been traced and found to have been used as part of the purchase price of a house at 53B Lorong Ong Lye, now in the name of Madam Wong Chui Ping (Mrs Phey Yew Kok), a caveat has been entered against this property. Briefly, no wrong-doing has been covered-up, nor has any wrong-doer been let-off, as the question has sought to imply. If the Member for Anson wants to, there can be an inquiry on whether there has been a cover-up. But the inquiry cannot cover the evidence on which the charges against Phey Yew Kok are founded. 

  hoiyung: I am asked, if I may state what the Member for Anson has suggested, to do the following: Get the Attorney-General to enter nolle prosequi or to withdraw the charges which - 

 Attorney-General to go into an elaborate subterfuge. In other words, the Member for Anson, in putting his question which is really to create a smear that there has been a cover-up, knew that he was suggesting something improper and had come prepared for an answer that this was being thwarted because it is sub judice, and therefore he proposes that we withdraw the charge; warrant will lapse; commission of inquiry is held, Phey Yew Kok's trial in effect is held by the commission of inquiry; all the issues involved are prejudged; the commission reports, charges are then reintroduced; warrants for arrest are reissued. Is that what is being seriously suggested - that a government should require its Attorney-General to do because a Member of the Opposition wants to satisfy his curiosity? 

  hoiyung: The commission of inquiry was supposed to have terms of reference which would cover the question set out: to report in as full a manner as possible in all the circumstances, interalia, on (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v). This has been spelt out. I am suggesting to the Member that he must know that this is improper. It must cover the grounds on which the evidence against Phey Yew Kok rest, including the system by which he siphoned off the money. How can we have this elaborate deception of withdrawing the charge, allowing the warrants for arrest to lapse, have a Commission of Inquiry, find out how it was that monies were siphoned off, and then re-institute the charges? If the Member for Anson 

 wants Mr Phey Yew Kok to have a good defence, that is exactly what he would do. He could then turn up and get the Member for Anson, or indeed any other lawyer in town, to go to court and say that a fair trial has been prejudiced. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Speaker, Sir, as a lawyer, the Member for Anson should know that it is not as of right that you can ask for the retention of a passport of a person who has been granted bail. It is a matter for the discretion of the Court whether to allow retention of the passport, and it is not normally given. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not know whether my supplementary question should be directed to the Minister or to the Member for Anson, but is it not right to say that there had been others who jumped bail even when their passports had been seized? In other words, there are other means of running away from Singapore. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong: Mr Speaker, Sir, with the benefit of hindsight, it can now be said that there has been an error of judgment. But could I ask the Minister, or perhaps the Member for Anson, that without the benefit of hindsight, was it not quite natural for the officer to consider that it would not be necessary to impound his passport in view of the kind of offence that Phey Yew Kok was charged? My point is that Phey Yew Kok was an honourable Member of this House, and at that point of time the officer made a judgment which, I think, was quite fair. I am asking whether at that point of time that judgment was, in fact, an error of judgment. Of course, now on looking back and with the benefit of hindsight, it was an error of judgment. But who expected Phey Yew Kok to do that, and who expects any honourable Member in this House to do that? 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I answer that question I want a clarification from the Member for Anson. What does he mean by saying that before the officer decided not to impound the pass- 

    Finally the suggestion from the Member for Anson as to whether the PSRC would hold a hearing to hear complaints from the Administrative and Professional officers. The answer is that we have already held hearings and discussed extensively with a number of Administrative and Professional officers in the formulation of these revisions. I see no advantage in reopening this again. 

 commend to the Member for Anson that perhaps, instead of going back to 1947 to colonial days, he should just read the Budget statements for the last few years. This is all I propose to say now. 

  The Minister for Communications and Minister for Labour (Mr Ong Teng Cheong): Mr Speaker, just to seek an explanation from the Member for Anson. In his speech he made it out that Singapore workers are suffering under this regime, that they are victimised and they are being punished. He showers the neighbouring country with praises, showing the disparity in treatment that the workers get in other countries as against- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, the Member for Anson has said a lot just now. I do not intend to repeat, but can he reconcile what he said earlier in his statement 

  The Chairman: There are two amendments* standing in the name of the hon. Member for Anson. I am informed that recommendation of the President is required in respect of these two amendments. Mr Hon, do the amendments have the recommendation of the President? 

Jeyaretnam, read as follows:

  Abbas Abu Amin            Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    The Member for Anson wishes to seek clarification on the types of prohibition that the Minister for Home Affairs would wish to have. I think one example is the stopping and parking of vehicles along the expressways. This will be prohibited unless it is an emergency. Another example is to prohibit pedestrians running across an expressway. This is all for the safety of the users of roads, I hope I have clarified that point. 

    The hon. Member for Anson made two points. His first point is why should private car park charges be approved by the Superintendent of Car Parks. I can assure the Member that this is not to prevent the owners from competing with the URA. Rather, it is the other way round. A lot of private car parks in big shopping complexes are owned by the developers. They can therefore charge exorbitant parking fees for utilizing the car parks. The point is that since they own the car parks, and if they were permitted to charge any rate they like, they can raise the parking fee. For example, if a shopping centre is well located, is very popular, and a lot of people patronise the shopping complex, then if the developer is unscrupulous, he will try to get as much revenue as possible from the car park by charging high parking fees. On the other hand, if he wants to get something out of the shopkeepers operating in the shopping complex, he may close the car park at, say, 9.00 p.m., thus preventing the people from parking there. So the need to control private parking fees by the Superintendent is to ensure that car park owners do not take undue advantage by charging high parking fees, thereby making the life of the tenants or owners of the shops very miserable. The Government imposes this requirement to ensure that the Superintendent of Car Parks has a certain measure of control over the management and the parking fees of private car parks. 

    The next point is that when an offence has been committed the owner of the vehicle is required to make a statutory declaration. Let me say that it is not in every case that we ask the owners of vehicles to make a statu;ory declaration. But I think the hon. Member for Anson has made a very pertinent point. If the owner provides the particulars of the driver to the Superintendent of Car Parks by means of a letter, instead of making a statutory declaration, it would be very difficult for the URA to take the owner to court because the owner can always claim that he is not the one who wrote the letter. But if he has made a statutory declaration, it would be very 

 difficult for him to say, "I am not the one who made the statutory declaration. I am not responsible for it." I am obliged to the Member for Anson for bringing up this point. It really supports the particular provision that a statutory declaration is, in fact, required. 

  hoiyung: Notice of an amendment* to the amendment from the Member for Anson is set out in the Order Paper. This proposed amendment to the amendment is similar in effect to, and supersedes, the amendment to the Original Question of which the Member for Anson had previously given notice. 

    When the PAP came to power in 1959, faced with a nearly empty coffer (I remember it was $10 million in the red after selling Christmas Island) we were then concerned with the most grievous problem of finding jobs for the younger people. At that time, more than 50% of our population were below the age of 21. Our Cabinet then was the youngest in the world. We had no time for problems of the elders then. We were looking for jobs. We were trying to provide housing, a shelter for the people. And now we can afford to spend time on the elders. We have come a long way, a good way, although a hard way. We are now more secure, with full employment, better standard of living, better homes, better in everything. Of course, if the Member for Anson asks what have we got in the last 25 years, I invite him to look at himself. He is the proof. So in that situation, it is only right that we 

    Old people need more than old age homes, more than homes for the aged sick. The Member for Anson thought that by providing more homes for the aged and more homes for the aged sick, we would have solved the problem. Of course, they deserve our attention - every bit of our attention. We do not need the Member for Anson to tell us that. We started activities for the elders long before his emergence in this House. Old people need more than homes for the aged, more than homes for the aged sick. They are the minority, Mr Speaker, Sir. Fortunately, they are the minority and, of course, we will look after them. The majority of the elders need company. Loneliness can even be worse than terminal illness because it attacks his mind. We have got to provide opportunities for these old people not only to feel that they are part of the community but also to feel that they are wanted and that they can still be productive in different ways to contribute towards society. They need company. They want to see the world a little bit more. They want to eat a little bit more, maybe better food. What we say in Chinese is, "Duo chi yi dian, duo kan yi dian shi jie". And here we say, "Look, don't look at the world. You don't deserve to look at the world. We are going to keep your savings." They need that money. 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock (Ayer Rajah): Mr Speaker, Sir, let me start by reminding some Members of this House, and especially the Member for Anson, that they have been citing the wrong reason for legislation to look after the old. The Report has stated very clearly and in no uncertain terms that legislation is to ensure financial support for the old and not for filial piety. I refer, Mr Speaker, Sir, to page 43, paragraph 6.4, where the heading of the paragraph states: Legislation for the Support of Aged Parents. It goes on, later in the page, to say, and I quote: 

    When I say my Parliamentary colleagues, I mean my PAP Parliamentary colleagues, not the Member for Anson. It is not because the Member belongs to a different party, but I just cannot follow his arguments.If I recollect correctly, I think he said that the Government is cheating in deferring the withdrawal age to 65 because people will die before 65 so that money will be put back into the Consolidated Fund. And then later on he corrected himself, "if they do not nominate anyone." I am no lawyer, Mr Speaker, Sir, but as a layman, I know that no matter what happens the money cannot be reverted to the Consolidated Fund, even if the contributor did not nominate anyone. 

    The Committee identified the need for the society, the Government, the community, the family and the elderly themselves to do their individual parts or their respective parts. It is not an effort only of the Government, as the Member for Anson wants us all to believe when he purveys his beautiful idea of a caring society. "I care for you. The more you are becoming poor, the more I care for you, the more you vote for me!" So eventually, like Great Britain, the whole blooming nation is probably being cared for. Right? That is what he wants us to do. He says that is what is going on in Britain, so why do we not follow? "If the State cares for the people, the various charitable associations will not stop. They will also care. Everybody cares. So we want to produce a whole nation of people, all being cared for by the State." What is to remain if everybody has to be cared for by the State? If we have got 2.5 million people all cared for by the State, who cares for these 2.5 million people? The Member for Anson! 

    No, our policy is different. We want to put backbones into every individual, every citizen, so that he cares for himself and cares for his family as well. That is the dignity and self-respect we want to build into our citizens, not to be suppliant, invertebrate and dependent, lying in bed. This is what the Member for Anson wants the 

  hoiyung: I would suggest to the Member for Anson that he should take our advice which has been the practical experience of 25 years. When we look at the Western society, we should look at it from the point of view of what they have done. We must gain from their negative lessons. That we want to learn. That means, learn from them what not to do, because they are in no position today to tell us that they are on the right track. We are in a position to tell them that our way is right. And the sooner the Member realizes that the better. 

    The Member for Anson read this Report of the Committee and, for reasons that are best known or unknown to anybody, he stopped shod at a certain page where he saw a Table with Type C. He then said, "What is the Government doing about it? Why doesn't the Government extend help?" Because if he turns to the next page, Sir, he will find that there is a lot of help being extended. Maybe his particular copy stops there and is as blank as his mind! 

  An hon. Member: What about the Workers' Party? 

    The Member for Rochore also said that Government is requiring the employer to pay too much in terms of 25% CPF, 4% Skills Development Fund, 2% Payroll Tax, making 31% and that this money is being locked up and the Finance Ministry does not know what to do with it. And therefore the money is taken out of circulation. All these arguments are probably more appropriate in a discussion on the Budget rather than in a discussion on the Report on the Problems of the Aged. We know that he has got his pet ideas about what should be the way to solve the health problem, what should be the way to solve the welfare problem. He feels that most of these services should be paid out of the revenues of the State. Even if we have the revenues of the State to pay for the services for the aged, by the time we come to meet these problems, we have not got the necessary manpower. Neither have we got the kind of manpower to look after the old. A person who studies penology, that is, the science of putting people in jail for committing a crime, will tell you that the major deprivation of a person who has been convicted of a crime .is his freedom. Your puffing an old elderly sick person into a place where he has got no more freedom is a greater punishment than anything else that you can do to him. The State can only do that - build old folks homes or homes for the aged and put these people in, and then put in rules and regulations that they will have to follow. That is not the way you want to treat your parent! I hope the various quotations from the good book by the Member for Whampoa have struck fear into the head of the Member for Anson for ever daring to say such things. He claims he is a caring person, but he does not care 

    There is also the statement that it is a breach of faith to defer the CPF withdrawal age. I think some later speakers say, "It is not a breach of faith. It is perfectly within the law to do so." If the Member for Anson thinks it is a breach of faith or a breach of the law, he will probably take us to court. There should be no problem with him. He is very fond of taking people to court. 

    Various Members have suggested that the proposals of the Committee to legislate for children to look after their parents were either good or not good. We have got two views. The Member for Kaki Bukit said that even if the father had not looked after the son, the son should have the forgiveness in him to look after the parent when old. I fully endorse that statement but I do not know whether the son will feel the same. We have to be fair. If he does not want to do it, we cannot charge him in court and punish him. But if he wants to do it, very good. This is not important. We are not legislating filial piety, even though the Member for Anson feels that it is unfair. Where in the case of marriage there is a marriage contract, in the case of father and son, there is no contract. There is also no contract between parent and baby, and yet we require the parent to look after the baby. If you do not look after your baby, you will be charged in court. There is no contract. I do not know what he is arguing about. 

 do not pay, what can the homes do? Evict them? You cannot evict the aged sick. And if there is no law to say that the children are responsible, who is responsible? So there must be this law to say that we can catch hold of the children. In fact, we went even one step further. We say that if the home is run on a commercial basis and you want to claim back the sums owed to the home for the maintenance of the aged sick, the Government will pay first, and then the Government will take steps to get it back from their children who are responsible. If we do not have a law to say that the children are responsible for the maintenance of the elderly parents or sick parents, then you cannot even take action against them, as in Western societies which our friend, the Member for Anson, wants us to follow. You cannot get anything. He will look at you this way and say, "So what?" 

Tang See Chim                     J.B. Jeyaretnam

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not know if the Member for Anson is the legal adviser to the NTUC. But no doubt he 

  The Prime Minister: I think the Member for Anson is envious of the rather friendly and fraternal relationships which I happen to enjoy with the Central Committee of the NTUC. It goes back many years. I do not have to tell them what they need do or need not do, and if they wish to seek my help I proffer it. If they act on their own, so be it. The reason why things have worked out well in Singapore is that both they and I have the good sense to know, first, what is the legal position; second, what is the ideal position. 

  hoiyung: I do not take cognizance of the same items as the Member for Anson does. Therefore, I seek the relevance of this to the subject matter which is the basis of his question. I will meet the point. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I seek clarification as to what is the Member for Anson suggesting or inferring in the second part of his supplementary question? 

 indications of flammable substances such as kerosene, petrol or whatever. All the persons concerned who had to be interviewed were interviewed. So that should put an end to any innuendoes or inferences by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it appears that the Member for Anson arrived here with an answer in his mind, which does not tally with the answer that I have given. I said there was a thorough investigation. Everyone who was concerned with events before or after the fire was questioned, statements taken including this alleged person, the URA officer. 

    I will give the Member an example. In 1975, in Marine Parade, Metro originally tendered at the rental of $39,300 per month for its supermarket in Marine Parade. Finding that this tender is too high, it subsequently gave up the premises and successfully re-tendered for it at $23,600 in 1978. In other words, the tenant who made a mistake can correct it by giving up his shop and tendering again. He is not tied down by the HDB that he has to continue to pay high rental for his shop. The Marine Parade Metro is still there. The hon. Member for Anson can go and have a look and 

    The Member for Anson's proposal to form a Committee of this House to examine the rental increases, I think, is totally unsound. When the increases were first announced in May 1983, 43 PAP Members of Parliament held a meeting with myself, my Minister of State, my Senior Parliamentary Secretary, and the staff of my Ministry, and the HDB. They were not invited by us. In fact, they came to see me. They got together and came to see me. 

 [Laughter] I will come to you later. The Members did not object to the principle of rental increases because they understood. And even the Member for Anson did not object, if I heard him correctly. 

    I would like to emphasize that during this period I have not received a single suggestion from the hon. Member for Anson on how to resolve this problem. I have not received nor has my Senior Parliamentary Secretary received any suggestion from him either in writing or verbally. Am I right in saying that? So he has made no suggestions. 

    However, for the benefit of the Member for Anson, who appears ignorant of the legal requirements, I shall now describe the various steps in the clearance process. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Lee, time is up. I think you had better send your reply (Transferred to Written Answers to Questions, No. 6, Cols. 197-8) to the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Ho See Beng (Khe Bong): Yes. Mr Speaker, Sir, I have read the cyclostyled copy of Hansard, Volume 42, No. 1, of 27th July, 1982, pages 92 to 94 (Cols. 69-72), in which the Member for Anson rose on a point of order 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, there has been a misunderstanding between the Member for Anson and myself. I was under the impression that he would send me the list but now, in view of the objection raised by him, I withdraw the remarks against him which I had made on 24th March, 1982. 

    The Member for Anson, as he has said, referred extensively to resolutions and reports of the House of Commons. But these resolutions were not entirely in his favour. Nor did he cite a case in the House of Commons where an advocate and solicitor spoke on matters concerning his clients and was brought up for a breach before the Committee of Privileges. It is obvious when you are an advocate and solicitor and you have acted in several cases in the High Court that, if you raise these matters in this House, you would be well advised to declare your interest. If you do not do so, then you are exposing yourself to a breach of privilege. What was there to prevent the hon. Member declaring his interest? We do not want to muzzle him. He is free to speak provided he declares his interest, whether it be a direct personal interest. 

    Lastly, he spoke of two Members in the Committee whom he objected to because, he thought, they might be prejudiced against him. Sir, the Members of the Committee of Privileges were appointed soon after the General Elections, long before the Member for Anson took his seat in this House. All I can assure him is that these Members were not prejudiced against him. In fact, the decision of the Committee was a unanimous one. All Members were for this Report and for the recommendation. Thank you, Sir. 

  hoiyung: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, this is a sad and unfortunate situation. As the Hon. Minister for Law has pointed out, this is the very first time in the history of this House that we have such a Motion moved in this House to censure a Member of this House. It need not have come to this, Mr Speaker, Sir, because the hon. Member for Anson, as an advocate and solicitor of the High Court, should have known better. All he had to do was to tell the House that, due to an oversight, he had forgotten the requirements of the Standing Orders relating to the declaration of personal pecuniary interest in any matter raised in this House and to apologize to the House. I am sure hon. Members of this House would have taken a lenient view of it and, due to the fact that he was a new boy, would have just cautioned him and let him off. 

    But now, listening to the Member for Anson a few minutes ago, it is quite clear that he is recalcitrant. He is not prepared to withdraw or he is not prepared to own up that he might have been at fault. He still stands by what he had said before the Committee of Privileges - that what he had done was not wrong, that he had not derived any personal pecuniary interest in those cases that he had raised in this House - and invited the Committee and also this House to pronounce once again as to whether what he had done was right or wrong or whether what he had said before the Committee was, in fact, true or false. The finding of the Committee unfortunately amounts to this, Mr Speaker, Sir: that he had not told the truth before the Committee. The Motion as it stands lets him off lightly. I think we are treating him with unnecessary leniency but I would support the Motion as it stands. 

  hoiyung: Something is obviously wrong. What is happening now is that we are consolidating this figure, which the Member for Anson quoted, plus the National Wages Council increases which altogether come to $18,767 per month for 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has raised questions about the appointments and salaries of Judges. I think it would be odious to make a comparison of how much our Judges are paid with how much Judges in Malaysia or Australia or England are paid. Conditions are different. There was a time when our Judges were paid very low salaries. That was when I joined the Government. Ministers too were paid very low salaries. But wages have increased over the years. As for Judges, it is difficult to get Judges who qualify to sit on the Bench. That is because, as the Member knows, advocates and solicitors in Singapore make so much more money than Judges do. The last Judge who was appointed earned at the Bar about four or five times more than what he is being paid now. It was a sacrifice for him to leave private practice and be appointed to the 

  hoiyung: Sir, I have been listening very patiently to the Member for Anson what he has been speaking on this Bill. May I remind him that this is a Parliamentary Pensions (Amendment) Bill and not the budget. I thank him for his advice on how to run a surplus in the budget. But let me assure him that I am able to find from the budget enough money to pay for the parliamentary pensions that are proposed in this particular Bill. I am also able to find the money to pay the Judges, whatever is considered proper to them. Civil servants who have had revisions of their salaries need not fear that there will be no money in the budget 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to ask a point of clarification from the Member for Anson. Am I right in interpreting that he is not against pensions being paid to Members of Parliament and Ministers? In other words, what is his stand on pensions being paid to Members of Parliament? I want that point to be clarified first. Leaving aside this particular Bill for the time being, what is his stand on pensions being paid to Members of Parliament or Ministers? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I am trying to pin the Member for Anson down on his point that, given the grim picture which he has painted about the economy, Ministers should not enjoy what is due to them because it adds a cost to the Budget. The point which I am making is that if you were to argue logically, if Ministers who have earned their pension under the Parliamentary Pensions Act were to resign, new Ministers have to be appointed and be paid salaries. So the argument that there is a saving is not logical. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, is the Member for Anson asking as to who makes the regulations? 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, first, I would like to thank the various hon. Members for their support of the Bill. I cannot agree with the Member for Geylang Serai more on his statement that the quality of the information communication services which the new Corporation will provide will depend greatly on the quality of its workforce and the work environment. This is one of the reasons why the Government thought it would be prudent for the postal facilities at Nelson Road to move over eventually to the new complex which will be built in Eunos Estate. We have heard of complaints from the postal staff and also from the late Mr P. Govindaswamy, the previous Member for Anson, years ago when he brought up the plight and complaints of postal workers about the poor working conditions at the Nelson Road Mails and Parcels Centre. The facilities have been improved from time to time but that was only a temporary measure and it was done on a piecemeal basis. We hope we will eventually give them a proper and permanent workplace. 

    The Member for Anson has a number of observations. First of all, it is about clause 10 on the appointment of the Chief Executive. He claims that the Minister's power is so unlimited that it appears that the Board would not be able to do anything without the permission of the Minister. I assure the Member that such powers already exist in the present Telecoms Act and the present Telecoms has been able to provide an efficient service - which he has admitted himself - so far with this provision in the 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: This particular clause is to make provision for that sort of investment. I am sure the Member for Anson understands that the satellite is not in Singapore. It is somewhere up in the sky. 

 Singapore to the new Telecoms Corporation. I assure the Member for Anson and the Member for Telok Blangah that the interests of these employees will be safe-guarded, as explicitly stated in clauses 28 and 29. As I have explained in my speech earlier on, they will be employed on terms no less favourable than what they enjoy now. If Members were to read clause 29 carefully, they will find that all the safeguards are there. All the various options can be exercised by these employees, whether they want to remain under the pension scheme or otherwise. 

    As regards the Third Schedule, paragraph 3, raised by the Member for Anson on the appointment of auditors, the Corporation would be happy to engage the Auditor-General as the auditor. Unfortunately the Auditor-General may not be able to accept the appointment because of man power shortage. My personal experience is that first preference is usually given to the Auditor-General to be the auditor for statutory boards. For example, the Singapore Broadcasting Corporation wanted the Auditor-General to be the auditor, but the Auditor-General was unable to accept the appointment and suggested that the Corporation engage external auditors instead. This clause provides that if the Auditor-General is not able to do the job, the Corporation may, after consultation with the Auditor-General, appoint an external auditor. 

    As there is already an avenue of appeal, we do not see a need to set up a tribunal as proposed by the Honourable Member for Anson. 

    However, for the benefit of the Member for Anson, who appears ignorant of the legal requirements, I shall now describe the various steps in the clearance process. 

  Mr J. B. Jeyaretnam (Anson). 

    As for the second part of his question, I think this has been dealt with at length in previous debates and there is really no need for me to go into this point again. The Member for Anson seems always to be championing the rights of people who break our rules. I do not see why we should make any changes just to accommodate these people. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has spoken at length. My response need not be lengthy because this Bill has a very specific purpose. It seeks to amend several laws, to delete certain provisions, certain words, which had given rise to litigation. In the course of the litigation, the High Court came to a clear judgment as to the meaning of those words, and this Bill seeks to remove any further uncertainty or doubt which may arise as a result of such legislation not being changed. 

    I do not think that one can seriously criticize this Bill if one did not have a very good grasp of the judgment of the Judge in the High Court on this particular case. I thought that the Member for Anson, when he took the floor, had such knowledge. After his long speech I am convinced that he has no idea of the key essentials of the judgment of the High Court. If one reads the judgment, it will be very clear as to how absurd it would be to interpret the words to arrive at any other meaning than what the Court had reached. Secondly, although the Member for Anson tried to pre-empt a reply from me on his remarks about the Land Acquisition Act by saying that we are not debating the Land Acquisition Act after his rambling pot shots at the Act, let me say that I also assume that a Member who wants to take the Government to task for the land acquisition policy in this House must be presumed to be very familiar with the various important considerations and grounds which have influenced the evolution of the Government's land acquisition policy, starting with important pronouncements made in this House, either by the Prime Minister or the Minister for Law and National Development (and now Minister for Law) in 1961, 1963, 1964, 1966, (as well as the debate on the Constitutional Commission in 1967) and in 1973. Those pronouncements clearly explained why it was necessary for Singapore in its particular circumstances, considering that land was a scarce commodity and that the situation of land is unique in Singapore as compared to other countries, to have adopted the policy that we did and why the land acquisition policy evolved the way it did. And the Member for Anson has shown in his speech that he 

    Land is a special situation in Singapore. He has made the preposterous statement that if there is any Act in Singapore which has impoverished large numbers of people, it is the Land Acquisition Act. My response is that it is not only untrue but that is a clear falsehood. In fact, I challenge the Member for Anson to point out to me any other country in the world which has such a scarcity of land, which has such a high density of population but which nevertheless has been able to achieve the degree of success in housing, industrialization, port facilities and other important social, economic and industrial development, notwithstanding the scarcity of the land. Indeed I would go so far as to say that if this Government had not the foresight and wisdom to evolve the land acquisition policy it did over the years, we would not have the Singapore that we know today, where more than 70% of the population are housed in public housing, where we have roads, and other facilities. He referred to the Port of Singapore Authority and wondered, with some feigned incredulity, how port and warehouse facilities could be equated with public purpose. I would have thought that any secondary school child would know why for Singapore, as one of the busiest ports in the world, port facilities are an integral part of the economy; how can it be said that our port facilities are unrelated to any public purpose? 

    Since the Member for Anson has raised this matter, it is suffice for me to say that commercial highrise buildings are a separate category because the occupants are generally not familiar with the layout of the building, the exits, the stairways, in cases of emergency. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not see the significance of the hon. Member for Anson's reference to the fact that there was a fire in a particular place, unless he is alleging in this House that the Fire Service was either incompetent or negligent in responding to that fire call. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, in making the comparison as contained in the question, the Member for Anson appears confused that the Ministry of Finance and the Housing and Development Board are administering the same housing scheme, when in fact they are totally different schemes. 

    Neither the Ministry of Finance nor the HDB is changing the rules for their respective housing schemes. The re-sale of vacant flats at Neptune Court and Lagoon View to public officers at low prices is consistent with the Government's policy of offering cheap staff housing as an incentive for civil servants to remain in the service. Civil servants who buy these flats have to serve Government for at least 10 years. Since 1978, 30 flats in Neptune Court and Lagoon View have been returned to Government from those who did not serve out the 10-year period. These were resold to other civil servants at the original prices. In view of the Member for Anson's question, the Ministry of Finance may review the resale price in future. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, as regards the first supplementary question of the Member for Anson, I have already given an answer. I do not consider it necessary to refer the matter to the Cabinet because these two housing schemes are entirely different and the only person who is confused about the scheme is the Member for Anson. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, at the last meeting on Wednesday, the Member for Anson, in a supplementary to his question, had proposed that I could overcome the problems by withdrawing the charges against Phey Yew Kok, then appoint the Commission of Inquiry, and after the completion of the Inquiry, recharge Phey Yew Kok. 

    I thought it prudent that I should not be the Government's legal officer. I gave my response off-the-cuff. I expressed my reservations. I sent it to the Anorney-General for his considered opinion. The Aftorney-General is on record. His professional competence is being challenged by the Member for Anson. 

    If he is confused, I suggest the Member for Anson take the matter up, get the Attorney-General properly disabused of his confusion and reintroduce his proposal in this House. 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Sir, on behalf of the Government I give the hon. Member for Anson and also Members of the House the assurance. 