  Mr Speaker: May I remind you, hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I do so in response to the Member for Anson's amendment, and I reserve my right to speak later on on the main Question. 

    Sir, the hon. Member for Anson, in his amendment, states that the Government, through the President has not set out any measures (and I repeat the word "any") 

    We can thank God that we have achieved tremendous economic success, and the $18 million that was spent on the National Exhibition is well-worth an expenditure to reflect what has been achieved in the last 25 years. So I would say to the Member for Anson that if he wants the voters of Singapore to take him seriously, let him not talk about his airy-fairy ideas of freedom and such like, but let him outline an alternative development programme for Singapore. Let him say to this House what economic policies he ha?. I have never heard a single word about his alternative economic programme for Singapore, either during the elections or during the time that he has spent in this House. But I have heard the consistent use of wild adjectives concerning the loss of personal freedoms in Singapore, violation of fundamental rights of people, criminal neglect of human rights. 

    The Member for Anson referred to the Prime Minister's reaction on election night. He said that the Prime Minister looked disturbed. The question is: why was the Prime Minister disturbed? He is here, but let me speak my mind. I have done so in the past, fearlessly. It was not because of fear of the Member for Anson. The Prime Minister quoted from the Bible: "And there arose a new King and he knew not Joseph." Therein lies the clue to why he looked so disturbed. The Prime Minister and his senior colleagues have invested their lives in Singapore. He was a young man when he started out, and look at his grey hairs today. He was concerned because if on some small issues the people could react that way, especially the young voters, what is the future of Singapore going to be? If the people of Singapore could elect Opposition Members like the Member for Anson, what kind of future can we have for Singapore? If the people of Bedok could cast 5,000 or 6,000 votes for a man who was medically unfit, what is the future of Singapore? 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson wants "a free vibrant society", and yet he would deny my freedom to speak here. If there is any abuse, Mr Speaker, it has been totally by the Member for Anson. I have another example here of his abuse. He attributed to the Prime Minister's reaction on election night that the Prime Minister was acknowledging implicitly that a lot of Government policies were made in a hole in a corner - 

    And the election was conducted freely and openly. I want to say something about this question of the ballot papers because I am very amused, Mr Speaker. For many general elections, the Opposition Parties, particularly the Member for Anson, made the point that voting in Singapore is not secret because there is a serial number on the ballot papers. But that is because they lost every election. But after the Member for Anson, to his surprise, won the by-election in Anson in 1981, suddenly we hear no more complaints about the ballot papers. Perhaps the PAP should have put out some lines like, "Remember, there are serial numbers." That could have frightened the voters away from voting for the Member for Anson! 

    Sir, if the Opposition wants credibility before the voters in Singapore, they have got to do far better than this. I would urge the Member for Anson to emulate the 

    I would like the Member for Anson to declare to this House what are the fundamentals he believes in about Singapore? State his case clearly and plainly to the people of Singapore. What does he stand for? Does he want a Singapore that is defensible? Does he want a Singapore that is sovereign? Does he want a Singapore where everyone, irrespective of religion, race, culture and language, can get a job, can got a flat, can have a decent standard of living? Will he uphold the Constitution that he swore on the Bible the other day? Can we be sure of this? Will he put a stop to all these unfounded allegations and come up with points of substance on which the Government can rebut and we can debate? If he has some constructive points to make, I would be one of the first to join him. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have to restate some of the obvious from time to time, and I think the first is that we have to educate a new generation. In the brief few minutes that I was here, it was obvious to me that we are going to have a replay of all the issues which the Member for Anson had flogged in the last Parliament. No person can better state the position why Singapore is what it is than I, because I made the decisions that made Singapore take the turning it did. - 

    I am asking the younger generation to ask themselves what made Singapore work. Are you wise in tossing overboard fixed, settled values which are part of our culture, of our ethos, for principles and theories of government espoused in the West which are not part of our culture and not part of our system? I understand the Member for Anson because that is all he has. He does not share in this other part. It is not his fault. His name is Joshua Benjamin. I know large parts of Jaffna where they cut off their connections with their ancestors and called themselves by the names of their plantation owners. It is not his fault. But these are deep fundamental beliefs, abiding beliefs. He knows no other system. So he comes forth with this. 

    And I am suggesting to this younger generation: you are going to hear more and more of this, and not just from the Member for Anson. If it is just from the Member for Anson, it is easy to demolish. It is from visiting professors, from eminent practitioners in every field, whether they are surgeons, ophthalmologists, whatever. They come from a different system, they espouse the views of their different system. Have we got the self-confidence to say, "No. I start off as the product of a unique civilization, the only one which has no break in continuity for more than 4,000 years." There must be some reason. Is it that inferior? Yes, it has lost in the race for science and technology. But in the interpersonal relationships, the fundamentals of filial relationships, familial relationships, is it an inferior system? This is what the debate is about, about our future. And we will deceive ourselves, particularly the PAP backbenchers, if we begin to talk to the older generation. They already know they are with us. They do not want what they can see is happening with their children, but they do not know how to stop it. And it is partly our circumstance. We had to go this way because we wanted the knowledge to make Singapore viable. There was no other way. The hazards had to be run; the hazards are being run. 

    I am not sure what is going to happen to our families. Our divorce rates are slightly up, but nowhere near the dangerous levels of Britain and America. But we have working women fully independent, economically. We have already unlocked important family grids that hold the units together. We are proliferating homes into Housing Board units. Where are we going? We are not arguing with the Member for Anson or the Member for Potong Pasir. We are arguing for the minds of the next generation and they are too young to know, as we indeed were too young to know what was good. 

Jeyaretnam, J.B.              Chng Hee Kok

    One aspect on which this progression depends critically, and which has rightly been emphasized in the President's Address, is economic growth. It is fashionable for us nowadays to denigrate it. This morning we heard the Member for Anson describe this as being a materialistic and 

    It is not true to say that the people of Singapore have been left out of it all in the last 25 years, as has been put by the Member for Anson this morning. Without the efforts of the people, nothing would have been achieved and we would not find ourselves in the situation we are in today where we can still enjoy a vision of things to come because we have already got the basics. But let us not forget how we got here and much better to learn how we got here and apply the same lessons, the same techniques, to achieve what we have set out to do in the next 15 years. 

 reaction from the majority of Singaporeans, notwithstanding the Member for Potong Pasir, has been one of anger, specially so because a friendly country wants to meddle in our internal affairs. 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok (Radin Mas): Mr Speaker, Sir, yesterday the Member for Potong Pasir put forth a challenge to the Member for Braddell Heights and I. Are we in a position to meet the families of the detainees? This point was answered by the Member for Braddell Heights and, also I believe, by the Member for Kampong Kembangan. But in the reportage in the papers today I noticed that the question was left hanging. So for the record I shall like to take up this point if I may have your indulgence, Sir. 

    If the Member for Potong Pasir will recall, when I supported him in the motion last year on a similar topic, I voiced concern for the families of those who were detained. As a family man, I certainly share the worry and the plight of these families. I think the Member was playing to the gallery when he brought up the plight of the family members of those who were detained. The question the Member has to ask really is: does not the fate of 2.6 million Singaporeans deserve his highest priority? 

    In what way is the disqualification from Parliament of J.B. Jeyaretnam a human 

    We have slowly evolved a politics of coalition. It is slow, it is laborious. In a way, it was a fluke that we succeeded. Because the communists were so dominant and so terrifying and so powerful, we became the only alternative and we rallied the whole of the rest around us, and we eliminated all other parties, or absorbed them. Then in 1966, they decided to walk out of Parliament, take the battle to the streets. And we moved quickly to fill up vacant ground. And we straddled a very broad spectrum of the centre. We left little niches on the extreme right and on the left. And little niches for the Member for Potong Pasir. It was right to do that. The Member for Potong Pasir says, "No trouble at all. We are all McDonald kids now. No worry." Really? 

    Everybody knows, including the Member for Potong Pasir, that elections are coming. All our opponents know or should know that these nine - I do not know who masterminded it, it is still being sorted out - they chose to deliver their blow in April when I was out of the country. But events did not turn out the way they expected or anticipated. But there is still time for those who had backed the joint statement and egged on the signatories to get together, present an alternative platform and an alternative government and contest against the PAP. Perfectly aboveboard. Mr Chiam has been trying to do that since 1976 when he first contested Cairnhill. It is 12 years ago. Get an alternative platform - economics, security, defence, social advance, education - publish. You have got to sit down and think and write, and write it better than 

    Let me explain to the Member for Potong Pasir the scenario if we take his advice. At least when the British and Lim Yew Hock rounded up the communists, I knew that they were in a back-handed way doing me a favour. I did not thank them because that would have been wrong. Because they did not do it for me, they did it for themselves. But I knew that I benefited. You have a man like Chia Thye Poh come up. Do you think he is going to look for McDonald kids? That is stupid talk, is it not? Are you sure that Vincent Cheng was the only thinker around with the group working under him? It is ISD's job to spot them. 

    When I passed by one of the SDP rallies and I watched the organization and motor-cyclists run around, I am completely relaxed because they come, they go, they were out for fun, an outing. When I see a differently-organized meeting and cheer leaders, that is different. I can sense it. Mahjong players, after a long play, you do not have to look at the seed. You just pick up the chip, and you say, "Oh, bad one, throw it away." 

    Finally, Sir, allow me to thank all Members who have spoken, including the Member for Potong Pasir. I must also thank all Ministers, especially the Prime Minister, who have participated in this debate. And I must thank you, Sir, for your patience and indulgence. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like the Clerk of Parliament to kindly distribute to Members and to the press the signed statement (Cols. 505 - 506) which Mr Percy Seneviratne gave to the Member for Anson and which the Member for Anson himself gave to me, as well a short statement (Cols. 505 - 506) which Mr Seneviratne gave to my Ministry. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Percy Seneviratne's statement that on the morning of Wednesday, 30th July, he had handed to the Member for Anson at 9.00 am Mr Lim Poh Huat's signed confession. 

  hoiyung: Right. But all of us will recall that on the 30th, the second day, I did not raise the question any more because it has been referred to the Committee of Privileges but, the Member for Anson, after Question time, sought your permission, Mr Speaker, to make a personal explanation and all that he did was to give us the address of Mr Lim Poh Huat. But by that time he already knew that the whole thing was a fabrication. He 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson, on his own volition, spoke around 11.30 am and all he did was to give me the address of Mr Lim Poh Huat which was a false address, asking the Police to go and investigate. But he was in possession of very vital information at 9.00 am that morning, that there was a signed confession and the whole thing was a fabrication. If he was an honourable gentleman, why did he not also tell us that important fact, that he was in possession of the information, that it was a complete lie? He could have come clean if he had no part in this fabrication and said, "Look. I know it is a complete lie. I tell you now why Lim Poh Huat did it. Please go and investigate." But he suppressed the truth. Does he not admit that he, in fact, suppressed material facts, suppressed the truth, in the same way on the previous day when, talking about Mr Jeffrey Chan, he also suppressed information? Does he not admit that that is very important information that he ought to have divulged in this House, more important than the address of Mr Lim Poh Huat? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson says it was not for him to investigate the truth of the confession. This is incredible. Let us review the whole thing in perspective. In March, Mr Seneviratne comes running to the Member for Anson and said, "Look. I have got a big scoop. A person was arrested 15 hours." The Member for Anson does not contact Lim Poh Huat, does not ask for a statement, does not ask for a Police report, comes running to Parliament, makes a fantastic accusation without verifying the facts. Now, when we have the opposite that Mr Lim Poh Huat sends a signed confession, he says, "No, no. I am not going to raise this in Parliament." In other words, he is telling the whole world, "Please. False allegations, lies, come to me. I will raise it in Parliament." Truth, keep it in his pocket, do not reveal it." So that is my first point, Mr Speaker: suppression of truth and facts in this Parliament. On his own, he raised a matter of the address but the most important thing, he suppressed. 

    The next point I want to make, Mr Speaker, Sir, is that, if Members will look at the document which I have circulated, Members will recall that on the 29th when the Member for Anson told us that he had a signed statement I asked more than once, on at least two occasions, when was that statement signed, when did he get that statement. I had my suspicions. I asked: was it before the Member for Anson raised the complaint in Parliament on 18th March or after? The Member for Anson did not reply. If Members will look at the longer signed statement of Mr Seneviratne which the Member has given me you will notice the curious fact that it is not dated. Most curious. 

  hoiyung: Will the Member for Anson please keep his cool and sit down? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: What I said was that there was a contradiction between the date mentioned by Mr Percy Seneviratne and the date mentioned by the Member for Anson in this House. And I then said that such contradictions will arise when persons are involved in fabrication. That is what I said. The Member for Anson jumps up to make further statements. It may be a psychological quirk of mind. 

  hoiyung: Towards the end. Whichever date we take it, it is clear that it was after the sitting of 18th March when the Member for Anson --- 

  hoiyung: Yes. My question then is: why did the Member mislead us? Because on the 29th July, when I raised this matter, the Member for Anson told us that he had raised this matter in this House. Why? And he said: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the facts condemn the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: We have now reached such pitiful standards of debate on the part of the Member for Anson. 

    The Member for Anson has dwelt on the first two points extensively. He asserted that Singaporeans would lose their right to access of information under this Bill. Let us look at the facts. In this age of instantaneous satellite telecast, the world is indeed getting smaller. 

    When the Member for Anson was arguing his point on the free flow of information yesterday, I pointed out to him that he was contradicting himself by stating, on one hand, the world is getting smaller and, on the other hand, because of this Bill, the freedom of information is endangered. He countered by saying that he was not talking about news items. Indeed, he was talking about judgment, 

  hoiyung: This is precisely what this Bill is addressing, consistently biased foreign judgment, opinion and analysis. So when the Member for Anson says that without freedom of information, we cannot have creativity, he is not referring to the freedom of information but freedom of foreign JOA (judgment, opinion and analysis). Is he saying that, without these foreign JOAs, Singaporeans cannot have creativities? I think if he is saying so, it is an insult to all Singaporeans. I believe we can count on Singaporeans to form their own judgment and their own opinion. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, point of clarification by Dr Wang. 

  hoiyung: Another point of clarification, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, another point of clarification from Dr Wang. 

  Dr Wang Kai Yuen: My statements are all printed in black and white and I will defend my speech against the Member for Potong Pasir if he is going to distort what I have said. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I believe that the Member for Potong Pasir does not understand parliamentary democracy. As it is practised in Britain, and as we have adopted here in Singapore, any Member of the ruling Party may express their opinions freely. But there are times when the whip is not lifted and they are expected to vote together with the Government. There are times when matters of conscience are at stake and the whip is lifted and then the Members can vote in accordance with their conscience. 

  Mr Speaker: Sit down, Mr Chiam. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir referred to a case of contempt of court. He referred to Newsweek, but I believe he was referring to the Asian Wall Street Journal sometime last year. 

    There is one important area which I had hoped he would touch upon and that was referred to by the Member for Potong Pasir, although he presented a different view, and that has to do with attempts at what I call economic sabotage of Singapore. Sir, we all know that Singapore has a very small open economy. We all know that it depends very much on the confidence we can generate on the part of 

    The Opposition Member for Anson has made these remarks. "Why must the Government ridicule and humiliate our citizens?" See what he has said. He has labelled the press "a gutter press" and 

    Point No. 2, Mr Speaker, Sir. As journalists, there are basic tenets that they have to follow. They have to be accurate. They have to be factual. Their comment has to be fair, "fair" meaning taking into account all points of view. This is where our definition of responsible and credible journalism differs. Credible journalism, in the eyes of the Opposition, means newspapers and publishers and journalists who at all times report glowingly, putting the Opposition into a position that they are the only champions of the poor Singaporean. We had a good example in a dear friend of the Member for Anson who had written at least three articles in the New Straits Times. One article praising him in a very glowing manner, creating a half-God in the Opposition Member for Anson, and on the other hand, putting down Singapore to an abysmally embarrassing situation. That is responsible journalism in the eyes of the Opposition. Let us be honest about the whole issue. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am only given five minutes to speak. The hon. Member for Anson has been given one hour to speak, I thought --- 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I must thank the various PAP Members for speaking on the Bill and supporting it. The Member for Bukit Timah talked about computer technology, satellite and he mentioned a new thing called computer bulletin board, and he asked whether the Member for Anson knows that with such a kind of technology we just cannot shut Singapore out from the rest of the world. But I am afraid his words are lost like water on a duck's back. I do not think the Member for Anson really understands this kind of technology. If he does, he would not say that we are shutting Singaporeans out. 

 Thousands of foreigners come here. Thousands of them work here. So it is not possible to shut Singapore out. This is just one of the deceptions of the Member for Anson, which I will talk about later. 

    Now, the Member for Anson. Yesterday he said that countries have held us in contempt. I do not know which country has held us in contempt. Does he know? He said he knows. 

  hoiyung: Perhaps the Member for Anson would like to tell me where is this country called Socialist International? I studied Geography but I have not come across such a country. 

    Sir, yesterday we saw the same old behaviour of the Member for Anson. We saw it today. We heard the same old tune yesterday, we heard part of it this morning, and he delivered it in the same old way, which we are all so familiar. It is like a taperecorder, playing the same stuff over and over again. That waffle was nothing new. From the froth I cannot find a strand of information, a strand of argument that really supports his rejection of this Bill. I cannot find it. The only point that he made was "we are shutting Singaporeans out". But how can we shut Singaporeans out when we even allow copies to come in? We allow journalists to come and stay, and live and work. How can we do that? That is, again, another distortion in his mind. Of course, it is not surprising because I do not expect ivory to come from canine mouth. That is a Chinese saying. I am just translating it. gou ju zhang bu chu xiang ya . I am no expert in Chinese quotations but I just learn a few words here and there. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Speaker, Sir, before we adjourned for lunch, I was talking about the local press and the tirade of the Member for Anson against our press. I said they are capable of defending themselves. But one point mentioned by the Member is that we are only fed with one view and this is the English press. We have actually more than one newspaper. We have the Chinese papers. We have the Tamil papers. We have the Malay papers. We also have many other foreign publications which are freely available here and the Government also has not stopped the Workers Party or the SDP from hawking its Hammer or Demokrat. So how could we just be fed with one view unless again he is trying to hoodwink us. 

 lives of individuals will be completely exposed to the public view and sometimes through no fault of theirs, they will not be able to lead a normal life. If the press were to take up the suggestion of the Member to be investigative, maybe they can find out who Mr Percy Seneviratne is, what he has written about us. I think then people will know what this so-called man with integrity and respected by the Member for Anson has said about Singapore. 

    What is the Member for Anson's idea of a responsible press? We have the Asian Wall Street Journal, for example, whose circulation is one out of seven copies in Singapore. Over the last few days, since our debate in Parliament over the Commission of Inquiry, not a word has been printed in the Asian Wall Street Journal about this subject. Maybe they will do so later. 

    Let me comment on the three questions that the Member for Anson asked me whether if the foreign press write about caring society --- 

  hoiyung: He is not giving way, hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir opposed the Bill. So roundly, he said. I cannot blame him. We have Mary and the little lamb or a little calf who is easily led by the nose by his friend. I cannot expect anything else from him. He does not listen very well too and I also 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also mentioned his meeting with the Chairman and publisher of Newsweek and Washington Post; that both the Oppostion Members met her. I do not know what his point was. Maybe to inflate his own ego that he has met this publisher. But since he has met her, I presume that she must have given him her view of how an international press should operate and I hope that he has learned something from it. If he has not, maybe I would try to give an example of what is meant by an international press and how it should help the societies of the developing world. 

    'I would say that there is a parallel in our own country when we are covering poor urban areas or black issues or even woman issues. At first I think the press has to be especially sensitive to whoever you are covering and to observe the regulations in the host country. It is absolutely right.' If the Member for Potong Pasir has not learned it, this is for his benefit. 

  hoiyung: The problem with the Member for Anson is that when he hears, he does not listen, when he looks, he does not see. Even if he sees and listens, he does not understand. If he does, he does not want to accept. When I said on 22nd January that we did an analysis, we did an analysis. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I am amazed at the level of comprehension of the Member for Potong Pasir. I do not intend to waste the time of this House on giving him a tutorial in English language. 

Teh Cheang Wan                   Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    '(a) to investigate the evidence upon which hoiyungasked to tell us, "Was he (Jeyaretnam) lying?" And then finally, and this is made conditional: 

    'My second reason for the surprise is that the terms of reference, as published in the Straits Times, have completely changed the character and purpose of the Commission which was discussed in Parliament on the 21st of March. The published terms depart dramatically from the terms that I put forward on the 21st of March. I thought the whole intention arose from your desire to ensure that the Subordinate Courts judiciary was not only independent of the executive but was manifestly seen to be. You have now, it would appear, turned the Commission into an investigation on me, not that I am afraid of any investigation. The whole thing is reminiscent, if I may say so, of the Ong Eng Guan inquiry. Is it not, Mr Prime Minister?' [I asked him]. That is it, Members of Parliament. What was agreed by the Prime Minister on the 21st March was a Commission of Inquiry into the independence of the Subordinate Court Judiciary because it is so vital to the country's stability. But what was announced was a Commission to investigate into Jeyaretnam, completely turning and standing on their heads the terms that were agreed upon. They were turned upside down, just as the trade unions were turned upside down and made to stand on their heads, as Hitler did, and as Singapore did soon after the PAP came to power. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has had one full hour. Presumably, he will use another full hour which he is entitled to. I did not interrupt but once on a point of order. He talks about courtesy. May he practise what he preaches --- 

    I do not intend to speak at length, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, because this motion is really irrelevant, it is a farce and it is hypocritical. It is hypocritical because the position taken by the Member for Anson at the closing session of the Commission of Inquiry which I demonstrated, and which we saw on the tapes the other day, was that he claimed absolute privilege, that he was prevented even voluntarily from going into --- 

    My second point is, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, that the terms of reference, in fact, arose and are based on what the Member for Anson said in this House on the 21st of March when there was a discussion on the Commission of Inquiry. The Member went through the debates but conveniently glossed over the fact that when the Prime Minister repeatedly asked him to draft the terms, he pleaded that he was not capable, not competent, to draft the terms on the spot. Hansard, 21st March, col. 899 [Vol. 47, No. 12]: 

hoiyung:     ' ... the basis for all the allegations made, all the statements made by the Member in this Chamber concerning the Judiciary and the administration of the law, ...'.     Now, what did the Member for Anson say? Did he protest that the Commission should not look into these allegations? Did he object to these terms as summarized by the Prime Minister? No. He has attempted to place a special meaning on the words "so be it". Let me repeat:     'Now he proposes that a High Court Judge be appointed. So be it.' He maintains that does not mean agreement. If that does not mean agreement, what does? And he says:     'So it is for the Prime Minister, and if he thinks that is what it should be, well, fine.' He had an opportunity to object. He can say, "That's not fine. I don't agree with it." He could say, "Mr Prime Minister, I don't agree with it. If that is the summary of the terms, I will not appear before the Commission." But he said, "Fine, so be it. I will, if invited, certainly make my representations to whoever is appointed." Famous last words of a man who cannot be believed.     Now, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, he refers to this letter which he wrote to the Prime Minister on 16th April, really like a spoilt child, complaining about the terms of reference. I might add, in parenthesis, when that debate ended, the Prime Minister made it clear after having noted  463 these points that the actual drafting of the terms would be left to the legal experts in the Attorney-General's Chambers. That was made very clear. In col. 903, the Prime Minister made it clear that it will not be he who will draft it. It will go to the draftsman who looks after these matters in the Attorney-General's Chambers. For obvious reasons. The terms for the appointment of a Commission have to be drafted in order for the instruments to be executed by the President.     I would like Members to focus their attention on the letter which the Member has just circulated. The second paragraph, what does it boil down to? What it really boils down to is that the Member does not want and did not want the Commission to look into the specific allegations. Look at what he says. He says (and he reminds the Prime Minister) he suggested two things: (a) that the Commission look into the general question of the independence and impartiality of the Subordinate Courts, see whether a better system can be constructed; (b) to look into the circumstances of Mr Michael Khoo's transfer. Then he expresses astonishment, surprise, over the terms which include reference to the specific allegations. He did not want the specific allegations to be included. The question is, why? Now we know, because he could not defend himself; he could not justify his allegations. No wonder then that the Prime Minister replied to him, as follows:     'You made serious allegations in Parliament on two occasions, in January and March 1986, that there was executive interference with the Subordinate Court judiciary. The Terms of Reference enable the Commission to investigate the truth of these allegations. It is strange that you do not consider these allegations important enough to include them in your proposed terms of reference.' Indeed strange that he did not want these specific allegations to be included. Because he knew, and it has now been established, that he was unable to back his allegations. But we are still giving him an opportunity, as was indicated two days ago. He would still have an opportunity, if he claims he was shut out, to prove his allegations, bring his witnesses, his evidence, before the Committee of Pri-  464 vileges, as mentioned by the Leader of the House.     The third point, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir. He makes much ado of the fact that he wanted the Commission to look into this whole question of improving the Subordinate Court Judiciary. The term of reference is in the Commission's terms, the fourth term. But he complains that the fourth term reads, as follows:     'if the Commissioner finds, on the evidence, that the transfers were due to or caused by interference by the executive arm of Government to receive proposals as to how the existing system and procedure ... can be improved.'     Why complain? Because this inquiry into whether we can improve the system must surely depend on whether his allegations are founded. Let me give an example. If the Member for Anson happened to see a crack in this building, suddenly rises and says, "Mr Speaker, Sir, this building is unsafe. It has been built in a negligent manner. We should bring down this whole building and let us put up a new, improved, House of Parliament." Well, sure. But before we look into the question whether we should accept his proposal to build, bring down, demolish the House and build a new House of Parliament, we must inquire whether the premise on which he bases his conclusion is established. We must first find out: is it true that the building is unsafe? Is it true that it has been built negligently? This is commonsense.     Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the terms of reference, in fact, are based on what the Member for Anson wanted and what the Member for Anson said in Parliament. He alleged Executive interference, the Commission has to look into Executive interference. He alleged impropriety in the transfer of Mr Michael Khoo; the terms of reference authorized the Commission to look into them. Building a better system and his allegation that the system should be improved is based on his scurrilous allegation of Executive interference: yes, the Commission looks into it if his allegations are proved.     So, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not think I need to add anything else. I will just end up by repeating that this motion is  465 farcical, irrelevant and an exercise in hypocrisy. The real issue before the House is not the terms of reference. The real issue before the House is an issue which I have mentioned the other day - attempts to bring down into ruin, bring into total disrepute and damnation, key pillars of our society. And when such allegations that he has made about the Judiciary are made in this House or elsewhere, the accuser must be able to back up his allegations. Opportunity was given, did not take up. Morning - hithering, dithering, waiver of privilege, "I might waive, I might not" if you produce his witnesses. Afternoon - 180-degree turn: "Sorry, I want to go in voluntarily, but there is a rule of law which forbids me to do it." Pitiful, pathetic display.     But the Government has said it has got nothing to hide. The Government wants to give him yet another opportunity and he has been told that he will have an opportunity to prove all these allegations because, in the ultimate analysis, we cannot let persons trying to bring down the whole edifice of our society in Singapore.     Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I urge Members to vote against this motion. 4.25 pm 

    Mr Deputy Speaker: hoiyung: All right, Sir. The absence of the Prime Minister shows that he cannot reply to this. So is it any wonder that his Minister cannot reply to the motion? Is it any wonder? May I, begging your pardon, Sir, hope that the Prime Minister is not indisposed. I wish him well and I hope it is not because of any indisposition that he has not turned up in this House.     May I take the last part of the Minister's reply. He says this whole thing is a hypocrisy. He says before we look into the independence of the District Judges and Magistrates, before we try and improve the system or whether we need to improve the system, we must first inquire into the allegations, and he gave the example of the crack. I agree that if there is a crack you must first investigate whether there is a crack and what has caused the crack and you do not pull down the whole thing. I agree entirely, yes. But what the Minister forgets is what the Prime Minister agreed in this House. It was open to the Prime Minister on the 21st March to say to me, "Well, I am not going to inquire into the independence of the Subordinate Court Judiciary. I am not going to inquire into all the circumstances surrounding Michael Khoo's transfer until I am satisfied on your allegations." Then I could have responded. But that is not what he said. He did not say, "I am not going to embark on an investigation into the independence of the Subordinate Judiciary until hoiyung:     'That this House regrets that the terms of reference announced for the Commission of Inquiry appointed under Gazette Notification No. 1298 and published on the 18th of April 1986 depart significantly in their purpose and object from the purpose and object of the commission that was proposed and discussed in this House on the 21st of March 1986.'     Should we not, Members of the House, determine what was the purpose and object of the Commission that was agreed in this House on the 21st of March? I have taken you, Members, through the Report of the debate in this House on the 21st of March. What was the purpose? What was the object? It is there. Do I need to take you through again? First, the purpose was to examine the independence of the Subordinate Judiciary and to see whether the system needs any improvement. That is the first purpose or object. The Prime Minister did not say in this House, "The first object will be to inquire into your allegations, Jeyaretnam. And after we have dealt with you, then we will embark on this." He did not say it like that.     And he accepted that the second object would be to inquire into all the circumstances of Mr Michael Khoo's transfer. "To inquire into all the circumstances", Members of the House, ie, to examine everything connected with the transfer. Why was the man transferred? Who started it? What were the reasons and was this a transfer really, or was it a demotion? So to examine the whole transaction (for want of a better word). That was the purpose and object, and I for one, Members of the House, went away feeling very glad that the Prime Minister had agreed to this. I thought perhaps I had done him an injustice in thinking that he was not interested in all this; he had shown himself not to be really interested.     So that was the purpose and object. To demonstrate to the people of Singapore, because it is so vital a subject, that the Judiciary in the Subordinate Courts was not only independent but was manifestly seen to be independent, which is what I said. It is important. Just as the maxim in law is that Justice must not only be done but must manifestly be seen to be done. The public must see Justice, must see it  470 manifestly being done. So that was the object and the purpose.     And of course the Prime Minister, when he came back, said, "I want also another term of reference, and that is, to inquire into the basis of all allegations." He could have had that if he had first carried out the two terms of reference and found that there was nothing wrong about the whole thing; if they had examined all the circumstances and had come up with a clean slate. Then he could have said, "Go on, after that, to inquire into why Jeyaretnam came to make these allegations when you find that there was nothing wrong about the whole thing." That is perfectly all right. I can see the reason, and I can see such a course of action or conduct. He could have proposed that to me here, "Do you agree that if they come up with a clean slate, you will subject yourself to an inquiry on this as to why you came up to this House and made all these statements?"     But what did we find when the terms of reference were announced? A complete departure. The object of trying to show the public that the Subordinate Judiciary was not only independent but is manifestly seen by them to be independent was lost sight of, as I said. Because that is the whole object and purpose, to show the integrity of the judicial system in Singapore which everybody on both sides of the House agree is essential and vital. So that was the object and purpose. But what do the terms of reference announced require the Commission? I do not want to read them again. That object and purpose is lost sight of, and we have a new object and purpose. Can you not see it, Members? The new object and purpose is no longer whether the Judiciary is seen to be manifestly independent of the Executive. The new object is an inquiry on Jeyaretnam, "What is the evidence upon which he came to Parliament? That is what we want to know." The independence of the Judiciary is pushed aside. "Let that wait. We want, first of all, an investigation into Jeyaretnam." Is that not a departure, Members?     I am afraid the Minister completely fails to grasp the motion. And it is lamentable because, as I said, the Minister is also a lawyer. So what has the Minister got to say  471 in reply? He tries again his old tactics - Jeyaretnam is trying to wriggle out. Wriggle out? My foot.     May we look at the 10th January Report again, cols. 711-712 that he read. He said I was alleging that the two transfers were caused by Executive interference and I am saying I never said it. Let us look at it. I was talking about the transfer of Mr Michael Khoo and I said, you know that he was transferred after the case was heard and he had acquitted us. Then I said, "I am sorry to have to say this, that was not the first time." First time, what? - that two members of the Subordinate Court Judiciary were transferred after they had acquitted accused persons. That is all I am saying - a fact. 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, by way of clarification, all I want to say is that every item that had been agreed to in the debate is to be found in the terms of reference of the Commission of Inquiry. What the Member for Anson wanted is in the terms of the Commission of Inquiry. Allegations about Mr Michael Khoo is here. His suggestion for improvement is here. But what he wants is, as he said, that the whole system of improving the Judiciary --- 

    hoiyung: Order. The Question is the motion* standing in the name of the Member for Anson. 

Lee Hsien Loong              Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please address me and not the Minister. 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise to oppose the motion and ask the House to reject the motion.     The Member for Potong Pasir talked at length about the buying back of HUDC flats. In fact, this matter has been very extensively discussed for a long time, I think more than a month. The arguments of the HUDC owners as well as the HDB have been widely publicized together with the views of the press, the people who wrote letters to the press and also the debate in the last two or three days during Question Time. So this matter has been very extensively discussed and I do not wish to repeat the arguments again.     However, there are a few points on which the Member for Potong Pasir is  494 attempting to mislead the public. I will explain those few points. The first point is that in 1983, when HDB offered HUDC flats for sale at that time, I said that the selling price of those HUDC flats was about 30-35% lower than the market price for similar type of flats sold by the private developers. That is a statement of fact. If the Member for Potong Pasir or anyone wants to check the price, he can look at the selling prices in the Straits Times of properties advertised for sale by the developers or by individual owners. They will come to the conclusion that what I said was true. For that reason, HDB was able to sell 4,105 units of HUDC flats. If the HDB prices were not attractive, it would not be possible for HDB to sell such a large number of HUDC flats, 4,105 units. That is the answer I gave to the Member for Cairnhill yesterday about the total number of flats sold by HUDC.     Again, the Member for Potong Pasir is trying to confuse the public by saying that the HDB has over-estimated the demand for HUDC flats and therefore has HDB ended up with 1,170 vacant flats. This is quite untrue. In 1982, when HDB assumed the responsibility of building HUDC flats, there were 5,800 applicants on the waiting list to buy HUDC flats. HDB had to assume that these applicants had applied for these HUDC flats in good faith. They had applied for these flats because they wanted HUDC flats. And it is the duty of the HDB to build these flats for them. Therefore, HDB proceeded to build more than 5,000 flats. 

    hoiyung: Not profit motive. HDB's responsibility is to provide housing. Our first responsibility is to provide flats for the citizens under our Home Ownership Scheme. So anybody who applies to HDB to buy a unit of flat, it is the responsibility of HDB to build for him or her a unit of flat. Therefore, HDB proceeded to build more than 5,000 units of flats. In fact, HDB has built 5,275 units of flats. That was the answer I gave to the Member for Cairnhill yesterday for the 5,800 applicants on the waiting list. Unfortunately, from 1982 up to now, 1986, during this period 4,900 HUDC applicants withdrew their applications from the HDB.  495     I have explained again and again in this House that HDB takes at least four years to build flats. It has to clear the land, to do the piling, to get the contractors to build the flats. It takes altogether four years to complete the flats. But it takes only a few hours for a person to apply for an HDB flat. He comes to the HDB counter, signs the necessary forms and he is registered as an applicant. At the same time, he can also withdraw. He can cancel his application easily. He just comes to the HDB counter and says that he has decided not to apply for the HDB flat, and he withdraws. So 4,900 applicants withdrew from the HUDC waiting list and therefore HDB is landed with these 1,170 units of flats. These applicants withdrew when these flats were built half-way. And HDB could not stop the building of the flats because HDB had already entered into the contracts. HDB could not tell the contractors, "Sorry. My applicants have withdrawn and therefore we stop building." It is not possible. HDB had to go ahead and complete the building. That was the reason why we ended up with 1,170 units of flats and this was because the public who had applied for HUDC flats had withdrawn their applications.     The Member for Potong Pasir is trying to mislead the House as well as the public by saying that HDB had blindly over-estimated the demand for HUDC flats and therefore had built more flats than necessary. In fact, we built less. There were 5,800 applicants on the waiting list and the HDB built only 5,200 flats. We built less than the number of applications. But unfortunately so many applicants withdrew from the waiting list and it landed the HDB with this large number of vacant flats.     Another point which the Member for Potong Pasir was trying to mislead the public is by saying that in his considered legal opinion, the HDB --- 

    hoiyung: He is guessing. The Member for Potong Pasir is guessing. He is guessing that HDB --- 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir said as far as he can see, so it is only the eye, not opinion. As far as he can see with his eye and not his opinion, the HDB is legally bound to buy back these flats. Am I right? 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, my legal officer, not me (I am not a legal man) and also the Attorney-General's Chambers have advised HDB that it is under no legal obligation to buy back these flats. So if the Member for Potong Pasir thinks that they are wrong, that is, the legal officer who advised HDB is wrong, the AG's Chambers is wrong, then I suggest the Member for Potong Pasir take this matter to court to see who is right, whether HDB is legally obliged to buy back the HUDC flats. I am quite sure if the Member for Potong Pasir is able to prove that legally he is right, then I think there would be a considerable amount of business for him. 

    hoiyung: I did not say that. I think last Sunday I have explained to the reporters why HDB buys back the HUDC flats. If the Member for Potong Pasir has not read the newspaper or is not very clear, perhaps I would have to waste some of the time of this House by repeating. HDB is under no legal obligation to buy back the HUDC flats.     Last year for various reasons some of the HUDC applicants approached HDB for assistance in selling their HUDC flats. They cannot sell these flats because they know that under the HUDC rule anybody who buys an HUDC flat cannot sell it to anyone within the first five years. So they approached HDB for assistance. At that time HDB officers considered that since there were more than 1,500 applicants on the waiting list for the HUDC flats, therefore they could help these people by buying back a few units of HUDC flats and offered them for sale to the applicants on the waiting list. Therefore this was a special assistance offered by HDB to the HUDC owners as well as to the applicants on the waiting list who wished to buy the old HUDC flats which were built in a good locality. Unfortunately this assistance has been misinterpreted by some HUDC flat owners as a buy-back-policy. This is a misinterpretation by the owner and the Member for Potong Pasir is trying to build on this misunderstanding and turn it into a policy of the HDB. I wish to repeat here, that the HDB has no such policy of buying back HUDC flats.     Just imagine, what purpose can be served for HDB to buy back a large number of HUDC flats and keeping them vacant? Is it not a waste of money? Is it not going against the Government policy of homes for the people? HDB has taken great trouble to build the HUDC flats. And after building these HUDC flats, HDB then sells to those applicants on the waiting list who want to buy these flats. After that, HDB buys back these flats and keep them vacant. Do you think any responsible  498 government organization can adopt such a policy? Certainly not. HDB has bought back these flats because at that time there were a large number of applicants on the waiting list who wanted these flats. At present we all know that the waiting list of HUDC flats has gone down to only 180. And no one on this waiting list wants to buy old HUDC flats. Therefore, HDB cannot continue to assist them. This is very unfortunate. HDB's assistance is not only not appreciated but has been misunderstood. In fact, there is a Hokkien saying: Ho sim hor dui chim. That is precisely what happened to the HDB. HDB is trying to help the HUDC applicants and the end result is that they are blamed and the Opposition given an opportunity to try and tarnish the image of HDB.     Sir, this motion of the Member for Potong Pasir says that he regrets the HDB's refusal to remove all restrictions on the sale and resale of HUDC flats. I would like to say that HUDC flats are the best public housing units built by the Board. That means they are the largest public housing and are provided with the best finish. However, this is part of public housing under the Home Ownership Scheme. Since it is public housing, they must be governed by the rules of public housing. In fact, the rules governing HUDC flats are considered the minimum rules required or minimum restriction, if the Member for Potong Pasir wants to term these rules as a restriction. It is the minimum restriction or the minimum rules required for this Home Ownership Scheme. The first rule is that the buyer of an HUDC flat must be a Singapore citizen. This is very fair because HDB is the public housing authority and it is building flats for the people. So the buyer must be a citizen. The flats can also be sold to approved permanent residents, ie, those who in the Government's opinion are able to make a good economic contribution to Singapore. They are allowed to buy, except that when permanent residents want to buy they have to pay 10% higher in price, and they also have a longer waiting period than the citizens.     The second requirement is that the applicant must have a family nucleus because the flats are sold to the people  499 with a family. For those singles who want to buy an HUDC flat, they must be at least 40 years old. But this restriction is different for HDB and for HUDC. Singles are not allowed to buy HDB flats but they are allowed to buy HUDC flats. This is the difference that I would like to point out to the Member for Potong Pasir. So I am saying that although HUDC flats are governed by the rules of HDB, they are not identical. If they are identical, then singles who cannot buy HDB flats should also not be allowed to buy HUDC flats. But singles are now allowed to buy HUDC flats. This proves that a lot of the rules of the HDB and HUDC are similar but they are not identical. In other words, not all the rules are the same.     Another difference is income ceiling. For HDB flats the family income ceiling is $4,000 per month, but for HUDC flats the income limit is $6,000. But the Member for Potong Pasir is trying to build up a case that they are the same. From these few points that I have mentioned, you can see that the rules for HDB and HUDC are not the same. They are different.     Non-ownership of a private property. This means that if a person owns a flat or a bungalow or a residential house, then he is not qualified to buy a public housing flat. This is because he already has a place to live.     Then the rules on the occupation of the flat. Anybody who buys an HUDC flat must use it for his own residence. This is fair enough. It means that Government is building flats for the people to live, not building flats for the people to rent it out. If anybody wants to invest in residential property, then he should buy a condominium flat or a bungalow or be like the Member for Potong Pasir who, I understand, owns several flats for rent.     Anybody who buys an HUDC flat must have stayed in it for at least five years before he is allowed to sell his flat to an owner of his choice. This condition is also the same for the HDB flats. The owner must live there for five years before he can sell his flat. Here, because of the requests of the PAP Members for a relaxation of the  500 rules, HDB has relaxed it to allow owners of HUDC flats who have been living in them for less than five years to sell their flats. This is a concession which is not given to HDB flat owners. Again a different rule governing the HUDC and HDB. HUDC owners now can sell their flats to buyers of their own choice, provided the buyers are qualified. But this privilege is not given to HDB owners. Again, this shows that the rules for HDB flats and for HUDC flats are different. On the levy, Government has done away with the levy. Those owners who sell their HUDC flats within the first five years pay no levy to the Government.     From these, Members can see that the restrictions placed on HUDC flats are, in fact, the minimum restriction that is required for public housing. That is a very reasonable restriction. Therefore, I request this House to reject the motion proposed by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Potong Pasir has missed a very important point. I have repeatedly said on many occasions that the policy of public housing, that is the HDB policy, is to enable Singapore citizens to become home owners. Therefore the Government is building public housing up to HUDC level, and sell to the people at an affordable price. There is no point for Government to build the flats to sell to the people when people cannot afford to buy. Therefore, this profit motive is not the primary consideration. The primary consideration of HDB is to make sure that our citizens are able to own their flats. And if it so happens that five years later they sell their flats and make a lot of money, good luck to them. But if five years later, they sell their flat and make less money, well, we cannot help it. It is not the primary objective of the HDB to enable HDB flat owners to make a profit. HDB's primary objective is to build comfortable homes, ie, to build good housing, for the citizens of Singapore. I am still confident that HDB will eventually be able to sell these 1,170 units of the vacant HUDC flats, because most of the HUDC flats are priced at a reasonable price although --- 

    hoiyung: The pricing of our HUDC flats is a reasonable pricing. As I  502 have answered the Member for Cairnhill yesterday, 70% of HUDC flats are priced at below $220,000 per unit. In spite of what the Member for Potong Pasir has said, I am confident --- 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, there is no point for me to answer the Member for Potong Pasir on an imaginary case. I mentioned earlier that if HDB is legally obliged to buy back the flat, the case is very clear, HDB has to buy back the flat. How can HDB refuse to buy back the flat if it is legally obliged to buy back the flat? It is quite ridiculous. 

    hoiyung: I am a bit confused. I thought that we are talking about HUDC flats. Suddenly I am told that it is HDB flats. Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think this is quite a clear case. I do not think we should waste too much of Parliament's time. If there is any individual case that HDB is legally in the wrong, then HDB has to buy back. HDB has no intention of breaking its legal obligation. If there is a legal obligation on the HDB to buy back, then HDB will buy back, as I mentioned, including the HUDC flats. I mentioned yesterday that HDB has undertaken to buy back 26 HUDC flats. HDB will buy them back. Anything that HDB is legally obliged and has undertaken in writing, HDB will carry out that undertaking. There is no question of Government breaking its own law or that the HDB does not follow the laws of Singapore. There is no such question. But if the Member, as an MP for Potong Pasir, is acting for his constituents, he can refer this case to HDB. HDB's legal officer will look into it and if, legally, HDB has to buy back or has to pay whatever amount is due, HDB will pay. But if the Member for Potong Pasir is acting as a solicitor for these people --- 

    hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not think we can continue to argue this. As I have explained very  504 clearly, if HDB is legally in the wrong, the Member for Potong Pasir can send the case to HDB and take it up with HDB's legal officer. And if HDB is legally obliged to buy back the flat at whatever price that has been agreed, the HDB will pay that sum of money. There is no question on that. If the Member for Potong Pasir considers that HDB is breaking the law and refuses to pay, then I would suggest that he take HDB to court. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has not read the text of my speech at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy carefully. I did not say that the Constitution would be amended "to enable a future President to share powers with the Prime Minister". Those were the words of the Straits Times journalist who had paraphrased my speech. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thought the Member for Anson has jumped up to apologize to me for having not read my speech carefully. Instead he has taken issue with the Straits Times and me for not having corrected the wrong reporting. The Member for Anson should have read my speech which was also published in the same issue of the Straits Times. My speech was also telecast. So he owes me an apology rather than the other way round. 

    Is there anything wrong with a Minister making a speech which concerns Singaporeans in a country outside Singapore? The Member for Anson himself went to Penang to talk on human rights, and he 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, first the question of distinction between the Member for Anson speaking to a foreign audience and the First Deputy Prime Minister speaking to an American audience. The distinction is this. He has double standards. I do not have double standards. But that is not the important point of the debate this morning. 

 in Singapore. I did not raise anything new in Boston. I was merely projecting ourselves into the future for the Americans who have an interest in the future of Singapore. I did not go into areas which the Member for Anson, in his own mind, thought I had gone into. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson is long on questions and short on memory. The matter was discussed sometime last year when he questioned the Prime Minister on this issue. The Prime Minister then said that it would take about two years for the details to be refined into a workable proposal to be formulated in a White Paper and submitted to the House. So please wait. It will take about two years from last year. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I just said that the Member for Anson is very long on questions and very short on memory. The Prime Minister has said last year, and I repeat, that the proposal will be published as a White Paper and submitted to Parliament and, of course, Parliament will discuss this. 

  hoiyung: Where is your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am afraid the Member for Potong Pasir shares with the Member for Anson in not recalling a matter which was debated here last year. The answer given last year was that a referendum is very expensive but if the need for a referendum is there and the Members for Potong Pasir and Anson press for it and we feel that there is a need for it, it will be put to the people. 

  hoiyung: Contain your patience. When the proposal is published in the form of a White Paper and should the Member for Anson ask for it at that time, supported by the Member for Potong Pasir - 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I answer the question, on the supplementary question phrased in the form of a long speech by the Member for Potong Pasir, there will be a referendum if the people feel the need for a referendum. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson does not seem to listen to my answer. I have stated in my answer quite clearly that this penalty was imposed under the HDB disciplinary rules, as provided in its Instruction Manual for parking wardens. I can send him a set of the Instruction Manual on the rules governing parking wardens. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson is interested in this matter, I will send him the rules. And when he reads the rules, then he will understand why the penalty has been imposed. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, again, the Member for Potong Pasir does not seem to listen to my answer. I have stated here quite clearly that "most of the HDB parking wardens are, however, performing well." That means, they are per- 

  An hon. Member: By the Member for Anson! 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: No, I am not accusing the Member for Anson. I just mentioned that he has been advised by someone. 

    On the Member's other question whether these four persons were PAP Members of Parliament, my answer is that one of them is a PAP MP and three are not. I am very reluctant to disclose the details for the simple reason that I do not want the parking wardens to misuse their authority by issuing tickets to the people for whatever reasons to cause them inconvenience. So I would like the public to know that wardens are not allowed to misuse their authority to inconvenience the public. Therefore, the public, if aggrieved, can appeal to the HDB and the HDB administration will take action against the wardens who have misused their authority. So I am quite reluctant to discuss who made the complaint to the HDB. If the Member for Anson is trying to debate on this, it may frighten the public away from writing to the HDB to provide the evidence or information on the misuse of authority by the wardens. Because the people may worry that if they write to the HDB and the warden goes to see the Member for Anson and the Member brings this matter up in Parliament, their names may be exposed. They would rather not get themselves involved in the debate or politicking of the Member for Anson. Therefore, I am very reluctant to give him the information. 

    On the question from the Member for Anson, I think the first question was investigation into insider trading in Pan-El. Indeed, I think this took place in early 1985 and this was reported through, I think, anonymous letters of complaint from people inside the company. The matter was referred to the Stock Exchange Committee for investigation, which was the proper procedure in those days at that time. 

    Finally, the question of the Member for Potong Pasir. Indeed, now that we know the size of the contracts, it is quite evident that this was a device used by some speculators as a source of fund raising. And this is the reason why it has now been stopped by the supervisory committee and will not be allowed under the rules of the new Securities Industry Act. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have not much experience in the law and neither have I any personal experience in appearing before the Subordinate Courts as the Member for Anson does. But can I take this opportunity to seek some clarification? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, if I may comment on the points raised by the Member for Anson. His first point relates to the question whether, with the passage of this Bill, the delay in hearing cases in the Supreme Court will be transferred to the Subordinate Courts. In reply, I wish to say that I have discussed this very question with the Registrar of the Supreme Court and I have been assured that this will not be the case because seven new judicial posts will be created. They have been approved by the Ministry of Finance and, in addition, six new courts will be added and these should be ready by the middle of this year. 

    As to his long speech on the Subordinate Courts and the District Judges, it really boils down to this. In his view the Magistrates and District Judges are appointed, transferred, and emplaced by the Judicial and Legal Service Commission, and that although the Judicial and Legal Service Commission has a special place in our Constitution,and although it is chaired by no other than the Chief Justice, he is against the system because he considers that it is not immune from the displeasure of the Executive. This is, of course, an innuendo that the District Courts and District Judges are not independent, a view which was pervaded not long ago, as Members will recall, by a newspaper, the Asian Wall Street Journal, and which led to contempt proceedings, a view for which the person responsible for the Asian Wall Street Journal apologized to the Court. So I need not say anything more except to add that this system of Subordinate Court Judges being appointed by the Legal Service Commission chaired by the Chief Justice has been in operation for a very long time. It has worked satisfactorily and there are no good reasons why we should change that now, notwithstanding what the Member for Anson has said. 

    The Member for Anson has also commented on the quality of District Court 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, to reply to the Member for Potong Pasir, it will be helpful if he is present in the House in the discussion of the Bills in which he has an interest. I have already said earlier in the debate that the Ministry of Finance has approved the creation of seven new - 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson can speak later, after I have finished my reply. Replying to the Member for Anson, I do not have the figures for the criminal cases which would be now going to the Subordinate Courts, but I understand that they are in the minority and the majority of cases would be the civil cases. 

    As for the rest of what he has said, it is in fact a regurgitation of what he said in the Second Reading of the Subordinate Courts (Amendment) Bill. Although he has made a long speech on the importance of appeals and administration of justice, clearly, Sir, his is a jaundiced view. For when he talks of the views of the public, what he really refers to is his own views. And his own views cannot be taken seriously or completely impartially here, for as he himself has said, that he is an involved party in the cases which he has referred to in this House. The Judge whom he refers to was involved in the case in which the Member for Anson was a party. So how can he expect this House to take his views as being serious. And really, Mr Speaker, Sir, he has decided who is fit for promotion and who is not fit for promotion. He says that particular Judge should have - this is his own words - "should have been promoted." I do not know. I do not sit on the Legal Service Commission. 

    He has made a second point that all these transfers which he referred to were because the decisions were not acceptable. This is a statement which he should justify here as to how he comes to the conclusion without mentioning how many other transfers there have been in the past year, two years or three years. As I said, Mr Speaker, Sir, these views of the Member for Anson, which he presents to the members of the public, is a jaundiced view of a person who has not had satisfaction in the courts as he would have liked. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I suggest to the Member for Potong Pasir that he kindly refer to the debate which took place in this House in 17th March, 1981, (Hansard, cols. 695 onwards) where the Prime Minister spoke of the need for High Court judges and of the difficulty in getting High Court Judges. And if the Member for Anson or the Member for Potong Pasir have names to suggest to us, other than themselves, I will be willing to put it to the Prime Minister if there is such a suitable person. 

    Millions of dollars of public money has been spent to improve roads leading to the Club, money which should have been better spent elsewhere. If this is not nuisance, what is? And every year we witness the scene of the Chairman or President of the Club playing Santa Claus by giving away cheques to charitable organizations from money which should rightly belong to the Government because the Government gave it the franchise to run races, which is almost equivalent to the right to print money. Of course, not exactly in the way which a former Workers' Party candidate was reported to have done - printing counterfeit American dollars. Now we are faced with a very curious situation. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have not got the right of a dictator who can do what the Member for Anson said I was doing. What I merely said, and if he has the ear to listen and understand it, is that this was what was reported in the newspaper. I did not say that he was guilty or not guilty. I said that it was reported in the papers that a former Workers' Party candidate had done this. It was reported in the newspaper. 

  hoiyung: A point of clarification, Sir. Would the Member for Potong Pasir please clarify whether the views he is expressing are his own or whether he is, in fact, not reading from a representation of the Law Society which was submitted to me? And whether or not the notes that he has are, in fact, contained in the memorandum submitted by the Law Society? Can he answer that question? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir began a long speech without divulging to us that he has received, whether officially or unofficially, a copy of the memorandum of the Law Society which was referred to by the Member for Anson. Until I could see the similarity in the points, although a distance away from my chair, and I asked whether he was, in fact, reading points from the memorandum of the Law Society to which I have already given a reply. As Minister, I respect confidence with the Law Society in regard to my correspondence with them. They had given me a memorandum. I have replied to it. The Law Society has not made the exchange public. Neither have I. In fact, I would prefer the correspondence with the Law Society to be made public because it contains very serious errors, inaccuracies. I would leave it to the Law Society whether they want to publish their memorandum and my reply, side by side. But if the Member is relying on the Law Society's memorandum to point out legal points, I would say that he had better ask the Law Society for sight of my reply before he relies on it because I will have to demolish those points in the same way as I have done in my reply to the Law Society. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, the position is that although the First Reading of this Bill was more than two months ago, the representation of the Law Society was received two or three days ago. Although it was received late, I have replied to the President of the Law Society in some detail, commenting on many of the points raised therein. And, in fact, pointing out that some of their representations are founded on gross inaccuracy and error, in not having compared the amendments side by side with the existing law. So I think it will be foolhardy for the Member for Potong Pasir to repeat points on which I have commented. And since it is not a public document, I would leave it to the Law Society whether they want to disclose both the memorandum and my reply publicly. 

    First, let me reply to the Member for Queenstown. Unfortunately he is not here. Perhaps I will wait for him to come back and deal with the Member for Potong Pasir, since it is fresh in the memory of all those present here. 

  hoiyung: Can I proceed, Mr Speaker, Sir. I think it is very misleading for a Member of the House to rely on an unpublished document sent to me as the Minister because the Minister himself has not revealed for the reason that I respect the correspondence I have with the President of the Law Society. I do not know on what basis the Law Society or its Secretary has chosen to pass a copy to the Member for Potong Pasir when it was not passed or distributed to any other Member here. If I am not mistaken, other Members have not received it. That is a separate matter which I hope the Law Society will choose - 

  hoiyung: Right. But the question is, whether it was given to the Member for Potong Pasir and whether the Member for Potong Pasir has sought clearance for it to be divulged in this House. I have asked him on several occasions and he did not answer the question whether he had the authority to divulge it in the House. He, together with the Member for Anson, and certain other Members in this House are Members of the House and they are also members of the legal profession. Certain correspondence and certain information to which they may be privileged recipients, as members of the legal profession, but other Members may not be privy to it. And for him to rely on it, point by point, as if this was a great exposition of views of his own until I had to intervene and say that this was not so, it is a very disappointing conduct of a member of the House. And it is just fortuitous that, although my eyesight is growing old, I could see some resemblance between his speech and the document that I have seen. 

 this amendment recasts and re-enacts the offence of loitering which already is to be found in the existing law? I shall stop there, Mr Speaker, Sir, as far as my reply to the Law Society is concerned. I think the Member for Potong Pasir should have checked with the Secretary of the Law Society as to whether there was a reply from the Minister and whether he had the Law Society's sanction to refer to both. 

    Now, the Member for Anson. It is really incredible that he can make such a fast about-turn. Not so long ago he said that "he appreciates the need for the Police to take action against any form of illegal bookmaking." I repeat "any form of illegal bookmaking." Now he comes here and says, "No, this is wrong. This is double standards." Well, I see he has a very quizzical look on his face. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, there is really no necessity to refer this Bill to a Select Committee. This Bill was published more than two months before this sitting. Ample time has been given for anybody who has an opportunity to read it, who has views on it, to give their views, and I do not see any need for reference to a Select Committee. In fact, Members would agree with me that we have to take action quickly before the problem gets out of hand. I do not think it is necessary for me to reply to the Member for Anson, as I have already replied previously. 

    The Member for Anson asked that the Bill be referred to a Select Committee. I have already touched on this point. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you confine yourself to debate on this Road Vehicles Bill? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has not come out clearly with his arguments. Does he want strong action to be taken against illegal mini-turf clubs and all the nefarious activities that I mentioned? Is he for? Or is he against? He seems to waffle. He was silent on the Common Gaming Houses Bill and all of a sudden realized he had better speak. Perhaps I should let him know that, in Potong Pasir, more than 60 complaints and reports have come from his residents. What is his answer to his residents? 

  hoiyung: Let the Member come out clearly with his arguments. Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, on the other point mentioned by the Member for Anson, let me assure hon. Members that although section 4(1) 

 of the Road Vehicles (Special Powers) Act provides for forfeiture of road vehicles, there are safeguards in the law which prevent arbitrary exercise of the power. For example, first, the court must be satisfied that the vehicle has been used in the commission of a scheduled offence, or that the scheduled offence has been committed in respect of any article or any person found in such vehicle. If the court is not satisfied with these matters, no order for forfeiture can be made. Secondly, although the court may be satisfied that the vehicle has been used in the commission of a scheduled offence, or that the scheduled offence has been committed in respect of any article, or any person found in such vehicle, it cannot independently make an order for forfeiture of the vehicle. Order for the forfeiture can only be made by the court if the Attorney-General has first made a written application for the order. In this regard, the Attorney-General will consider available evidence and other relevant matters (in reply to a point made by the Member for Anson), for example, in the case of a stolen vehicle, where the owner of the vehicle has knowledge of the commission of the scheduled offences, and so on. These matters and the matter mentioned by the Member for Anson will be given careful consideration before an application for forfeiture is made. 

    Coming down to the question of the Member for Anson on Dr Tan's commitment to abolish the tax, I think the word he used was "suspend". The Oxford Dictionary will define "suspension" as a temporary measure and not a permanent change. 

    Finally, the questions raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He said, "What is the limit of the tax?" The present limit is zero, as I have no intention of imposing the payroll tax and neither will I consider doing it if the economy cannot possibly stand it. In fact, it was suspended for precisely this reason. I think one must accept that the Government is not irrational. In fact, the best signal that the Government can give to foreign investors is precisely that we are willing to change our laws, our impositions, to meet circumstances. And everything we have done to date, in fact, illustrates this. [Interruption]. Is zero a killing? 

    I would like to mention in general terms that the provisions under these amendments have been thoroughly discussed with the members of the insurance industry as part of our consultative process, and it has taken many months to achieve the present result. And in this connection, I would like to respond to the insinuations of the Member for Anson during the debate on the Betting (Amendment) Bill. He suggested that the MAS had shown bias in giving special conditions or allowances to the Committee of the Stock Exchange to take considerable time for consideration of the proposed SI amendments. It is normal practice for the MAS to conduct extended consultations with people affected by proposed changes in law. It is essential in our view that such consultation should take place because it is clearly impractical to impose legislation which is unworkable or would destroy the industry it is designed to promote. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson as well as the Member for Potong Pasir have spoken at some length on the supremacy of Parliament, especially in relation to the question of privilege, and they have made a general principle on how we ought to jealously safeguard our supremacy in these matters and protect those who appear before Parliament. A general principle is good up to a point but it must be tested against the particulars of the case. So we cannot get away from the particulars of the case before us. 

    The Member for Anson has, in his usual fashion, made a case on the basis that the legal aspects of this are absolutely clear and that it is an open-and-shut case. This is to be expected, as I think any of us who have had dealings with lawyers would know that lawyers who appear in court are absolutely convinced and speak with great conviction of their case even though they may be defending a client who is guilty. Both the Members are quite entitled to their opinion. But I beg to differ. I would consider it wiser to put my confidence in the views of the Attorney-General and the Solicitor-General and the deliberations of the Committee on Public Petitions. 

    If Mr Sivadas feels that his rights have been violated, he can, I am sure, make a cogent case in the court with the help, if necessary, of the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir in their capacity as lawyers. In the meantime, Members should accept the Report of the Public Petitions Committee and reject the motion by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: The Question is the motion* so moved by the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Order. hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have always been considerably impressed by the oratory of the Member for Anson, except in this instance I find that his speech on this subject 7207consists of 1% substance, about 95% meandering, and 4% of hot air. 

    I think I have already talked about this in my ministerial address. Perhaps I should explain to the Member for Anson that a self-regulatory system, as practised here and until the change in the Securities 

  Dr Hu Tsu Tau: I am answering for your benefit now. There is an advisory body provided under the Securities Industry Council in which MAS is represented. That body's sole function, in fact, is to advise the Minister on new listings of companies. It also advises the Minister on administration of the Code on Takeovers and Mergers on stock exchange matters. If the Member for Anson wants details, we can give him facts which clearly establish that MAS has no powers which we would like to have and which are embodied in the new Securities Industry Act. 

  hoiyung: Yes, I gave the consent simply because it was clearly impractical to insist that the Stock Exchange remain open when they clearly were not able to do so. I think that does not require a lot of logic. If we had insisted that the Stock Exchange remain open in the circumstances, does the Member for Anson believe that the prices would not have dropped? I believe that the prices in fact would have dropped twice as large. 

  hoiyung: Of course, not. [Interruption] But that was due to market reaction, logical or otherwise, and in a few days' time the drop was recovered and, in fact, in the process of the last few days, a good proportion of this so-called loss which the Member for Anson has mentioned has been largely recovered. I do not wish to go into the intricacies of what stock market movements mean but I think most people who are knowledgeable will understand. 

    As to the statement made by the Member for Anson about foreign loss of confidence, he is quoting from the BBC, the Far Eastern Economic Review, Financial Times, commentaries which suggest that the closure of the stock market in Singapore is an unprecedented tragedy of unprecedented scale. As I said earlier, investment by foreigners in our market is relatively small. Therefore, by no means, does their withdrawal of confidence mean all that much, as I have said earlier. Secondly, as to the question about the unprecedented nature of the closure, I would like to say that if it is decided that in the interest of the public in general that the stock market should be closed for two or three days in order to ensure that a proper regulated market guaranteeing the trades of all investors could be achieved after that, the decision to close, I think, was a wise one. 

    The following Question stood in the name of hoiyung: Mr Chiam. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Speaker, Sir, although the Member for Potong Pasir is not here, I think it is right that the Member for Chong Boon has stood up to ask the Question so that it can be given an answer. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir has read the newspapers, he would have got the answer. It is not true. The publication is free to circulate its magazine to any of its subscribers, subject to its providing subscribers from libraries who are already subscribing to the magazine. The objective is to enable the general public to have easy access to the magazine. 

    Chandra Das, the MP for Chong Boon, for example, particularly felt the pressure of this voting trend in 1984. Ling How Doong was Chiam's man, standing for the SDP, whose party constitution does not include multi-racialism as one of its objectives. It was reported that when Ling went campaigning house to house, he would ask in Mandarin and dialects, whether "that Indian man" had visited them. Chandra Das, a strong PAP candidate, got only 55% of the vote. Ling How Doong is now the Chairman of the SDP. The newspapers reported him as being against the idea of Team MPs. 

    The PAP has gone out of its way to find and field good Malay candidates. It has succeeded, but only with great difficulty, because the pool of Malay professionals is so small. Opposition parties are under no obligation whatsoever to make the same effort. The SDP did not field a single candidate from the minority community in the last General Election. 

    Since GRCs will have a multi-racial team of candidates, this Bill, once passed, will require all parties to field a racially balanced slate of candidates if they want to win power. GRCs will produce almost half the number of MPs. Whichever party wants to win power in Singapore must contest in them. It cannot just contest in single-member constituencies. That will be an open admission of its failure to field a multi-racial team. Just like the Member for Potong Pasir who admitted just now that in the last elections, he could only field four candidates from one community. Any party intending to assume office must act and offer itself as an alternative 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Order. Your time is up, Mr Chiam. 

    Sir, sitting down and listening to the Member for Potong Pasir, I expected a very fiery speech opposing this Bill. What we actually heard from him was really a rehash of an article that appeared in the "Hammer". I was equally disappointed that he did not even rebut some of the points which the First Deputy Prime Minister made regarding his own party. Nevertheless, this debate did not begin today. In fact, this has been going on for quite some time and many of the issues have been voiced out both publicly and privately. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has mentioned about referendum. He tried mass signature campaigns. Referendum to do what, Sir? Ask the majority, or ask the minority? One would like to know what has happened to his signature campaign. Nothing has been mentioned about it lately. 

    Sir, the Team MP and the GRC concept is not designed to entrench the PAP as a ruling party forever. The Member for Potong Pasir strongly believes that this concept was thought out after the last general elections. In fact, he said "23rd December 1984". The First Deputy Prime Minister has taken great pains to explain in this House his correspondence with the Prime Minister, his correspondence with the Minister for the Environment, Dr Ahmad Mattar, and these dates do not show "1984" at all. They were well before 1984. 

    I do not agree with the Member for Potong Pasir who said that a Member of Parliament elected from a minority race will find himself being belittled in the Team MPs System. The question of weak Members of Parliament does not arise unless political parties field weak candidates. On the other hand, this system requires them to ensure that qualified candidates from minority communities are fielded in the elections if they want to win. If the Opposition parties wish to participate in the elections, they should field capable candidates from the minority groups, just as the PAP has done. PAP Malay MPs or MPs from other minority communities have shown their abilities, just like PAP Chinese MPs. I appeal to good and capable leaders from the minority groups to come forward to participate in the elections and serve our nation. 

    Now we already have this sytem of non-constituency MP besides the elected MP. The GRC system will add a new dimension to the picture. This new system will ensure that every political party which wants to be the government will have to ensure that they are going along multi-racial line, reflecting the characteristics in our multi-racial Parliament. What is wrong? So if the Member for Potong Pasir wants to be the government, if he is going along with multi-racialism in Parliament, I will also welcome him, if he is able to. So this is a measure by the Parliament to chart the course which will ensure future peace and prosperity for Singapore. As for personal interest, whether this constituency or that constituency, or whether one wins or loses, it is of individual and minor interest which is a small matter and does not matter. What is important is to enable the Parliament to look after the interest of the whole country and we all should support the measure whole heartedly. Don't you think so? Thank you. 

    Sir, in our concept of GRCs, in each of a team of three, there will be one MP representing the Malay or minority community. The Singapore Democratic Party in its publication says that this will "enshrine racialism in our Constitution". Is this really true? 

    Sir, the first example is that of Cyprus which the Member for Potong Pasir himself has cited. 

  Dr Aline K. Wong (Changkat): Sir, I think it is important for us, before we go into the details of the various clauses of the Bill, to sort out the more fundamental question of why this Bill is necessary as well as to answer some of the points, in my view rather serious points, made by the Member for Potong Pasir. Unless these questions are settled in our minds, I think the public may be confused over details. 

    I would like to address the two points which have been repeatedly harped upon by the Member of Potong Pasir and which, in my mind, are serious and must be answered. First, he said that by institutionalizing multi-racial representation we are heightening the racial consciousness of Singaporeans and therefore we may be doing away with, completely demolishing, the 22 years of nation building efforts that we have made. I do not dispute that building a Singaporean identity is very important. We should continue every effort to help Singaporeans feel Singaporean first and foremost. But 22 years of nation building have not obliteratedour cultural differences. 

  hoiyung: That is not splitting hairs. Because what I find in the Member for Potong Pasir's statement that "we are enshrining racialism" a very insidious intention. Racialism implies that instead of treating everybody on an equal basis, we are treating people based on the biological make-up. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, I must warn you not to interject. 

  Dr Aline Wong: To suggest that multi-racial representation means racialism is to stir the darker emotions and to vilify the good intentions of the Government. May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir, if it not not clear - 

  hoiyung: May I ask the Member of Potong Pasir, rhetorically, a question that, if it is not clear that open but sensitive and responsible discussion of ethnic differences and different perspectives is for the long term good of the nation, which government would want to make this move? I welcome the 1DPM's intention and resolution to commit this Bill to a Select Committee. I think it is very important to let the public speak up its mind and to really come to grasp with the issues at hand. 

    Still, I believe the reasons for not conducting a referendum must be explained very clearly to the people. By the way, I do not understand or I do not really know why the Member for Potong Pasir has come down so much from his past demands for a referendum to accepting a Select Committee now. But I think his point about referendum must be addressed, and must be addressed adequately. It is no good, it is not sufficient, to say that because we are all duly elected representatives and since Constitutional amendments only require a two-thirds majority in this House, therefore a referendum is not necessary. Because many people believe that the changes proposed are major changes and that they involve changes in the ground rules. So I believe the need to explain to the population why a referendum is not instructive, is not useful, and in fact can be confusing in this case, must be clearly explained. The need to explain this issue, Sir, does not lie in the number of people who call for a referendum. Petitions and the number of signatures are never accurate indications in such kinds of campaigns. What is important is to understand why there is a demand for a referendum at all, and I think we must read this population sentiment right. We are seeing in this demand the same desire among the better educated, more politically conscious, young Singaporeans who wish to have a say in policy-making and not just to exercise a vote during election time. 

  Mr Heng Chiang Meng (Jalan Kayu): Sir, the hon. Member for Potong Pasir is not too happy about us using Sri Lanka or Fiji as examples. Actually there are examples in the Western developed countries like Holland and Belgium where there are also institutionalized power-sharing arrangements amongst the different communities there. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir again 

    But most important, the Member for Potong Pasir has missed the crucial point of the issue before us. This issue is not that the candidates from the minority communities can be elected on their own steam and thus an arrangement such as the Bill before the House is not necessary. Sir, the issue is, what happens to Singapore if they are not elected. What if one day, due to reasons beyond our control, say, internally, such as a party appealing to the chauvinism of the majority or, even externally, such as events or actions in neighbouring countries causing our people to react in an emotionally realistic mannar. Sir, what if one day all returned candidates in a general election are Chinese? Then what happens? How will our neighbours react? What will be the geopolitical effect in our region? 

    Sir, my point is, and I suppose this is the point in the mind of the Member for Potong Pasir, what is the chance of this happening? One in a million? One in ten million? Or even one in a billion? Even if it is one in a trillion, can we afford to take the risk of this unimaginable event happening? Some of the arguments put out by the Member for Potong Pasir may be considered rational, even sometimes sound, but of all persons, Sir --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I must warn you to stop interrupting. If you want to say anything, rise from your seat and seek the permission of the Chair. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you already had your say. Are you going to clarify something which has been said? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have already made your points. Can you resume your seat? 

 the Member for Potong Pasir. As a Member of Parliament who comes from a minority group, I understand the implications of this Bill. And I feel the Member for Potong Pasir is not qualified to voice the anxieties and fears of the minority groups in Singapore, in particular the Malay community. I consider this issue a crucial one and, looking far ahead, I am convinced Singapore cannot afford to be trapped in a situation where the minority groups are not adequately represented or perhaps not represented at all in the legislative process. If this is allowed to happen, the consequences will be very serious, protracted and would affect our political stability. 

  hoiyung: He is not giving way, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I hope I shall have the pleasure of addressing the Member for Potong Pasir as the honourable hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, this is typical of the hon. Member for Whampoa. I think he loves to pick on me. Sir, he is completely out of order. We are debating on the amendment to the Standing Orders. I do not think we are touching on the issue of non-constituency MPs. Maybe at another time I will answer him. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I thought he drew the House's attention to the fact that had there been non-constituency MPs admitted to this House after the 1984 general elections, we would have had to introduce such an amendment earlier. But you see, Mr Speaker, Sir, part of the fault lay with the Member for Potong Pasir. He would not let us have one non-constituency MP from his party. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I do not have much to add other than to thank Members for their contribution. And to allay the fears of the hon. Member for Potong Pasir, I think if he would like to continue, if he has the opportunity, to be called "the hon. Member for Potong Pasir", he still could, because under the amendment for a single constituency Member he could, still be called by the name of the Constituency to which he was returned. Of course, if other Members would like to be addressed by their names, it could also be done. I have said in my speech that it is only polite to prefix it with "Mr" or "Honourable Minister" or "Honourable Mr" depending on the choice of Members individually. 

    Some people question the need to limit the number of people who qualify for standing for election as President to someone with previous ministerial or high executive experience. In fact, the Member for Potong Pasir is reported to have said that he thinks everyone should be entitled to stand for the Presidency. I beg to disagree with him. When companies carefully screen their candidates for senior positions, should we not do the same when we select someone to keep a check on billions of dollars? I think it is only right that we pick capable people, experienced in public affairs, able to see the overall national interest. He should be one who is wise and decisive. 

    As regards the request by the Member for Potong Pasir on the 6th August that the question of an elected President should be put to a vote by the people in the next general elections if there is no referendum and the Bill for these constitutional amendments should not be passed before the general elections, I urge the government to agree to his request. Let the people have a say in this proposal. But I propose that the Opposition parties should play their part also by fielding candidates in all the constituencies and make the elected President proposal as an issue to be voted on by the voters. Otherwise, they would have deprived voters of the non-contested constituencies the chance to express their view on this proposal. Those professionals who think that this proposal should go through a referendum, I believe among them are those who are also 

    The following question stood in the name of hoiyung: I notice Mr Chiam is not here again. 

  The Minister for Communications and Information (Dr Yeo Ning Hong): Mr Speaker, Sir, I see the Member for Potong Pasir has got into the habit of having his questions asked by a PAP MP. 

    Sir, I am not aware of any news blackout because there was none. Whether the news about the Workers' Party's quarrels, dissensions and resignations are included in the very limited air time available for TV and radio news are matters for the editors to decide. 

    The First Deputy Prime Minister in moving this Bill has outlined clearly the development as far back as 1982 and also the exhaustive thinking which has gone into this very important and very critical issue, before this proposal is tabled in Parliament for debate and for acceptance. My colleagues, PAP MPs, and also the Opposition, the Member for Potong Pasir, have given their views. I think the citizens must closely reflect on what has been said yesterday and again today. With the Bill before the the Select Committee, they will have a chance to give their views and also to bring up, if they have, a better solution to this issue or to this problem. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir in opposing this Bill said that this Bill will introduce communalism and racialism in the electoral system, that the Bill will enshrine communalism in our laws. This will, he said, undermine nation building. Is this really so? Will provisions to enable adequate Malay and other minority representation in Parliament lead to more communalism? Will the proposal to ensure 

  Mr Speaker: Please sit down, Mr Chiam. He is not giving way. 

  hoiyung: On what point, Mr Chiam? 

    I will come straight to the point. I am surprised that the Member for Potong Pasir did not answer the Hon. First Deputy Prime Minister's point when he took part in the debate and delivered his speech yesterday. The point is this. The SDP's constitution does not state that it subscribes to a multi-racial Singapore. Sir, may I ask him whether this is an oversight? If it is, whether he and the SDP intend to amend it accordingly? Because he himself said that he is all for a multi-racial Singapore. 

    Furthermore, he portrays himself as a champion of the Malays. Here I would like to ask him again whether the Presidential Council for Minority Rights has now become redundant. And also according to him, since Article 152 of the Constitution is pernicious, would he move that it be repealed? If not, how can he fallaciously believe and subscribe to a multi-racial Singapore, in his own description, "one people, one race, out of mixed marriages, mixed religions"? I think this House would like to be enlightened on this, and I hope, Mr Speaker, Sir, you will be so kind enough as to enable the Member for Potong Pasir to make his clarifications. 

    First, in the constitution of the SDP, it is not stated that it subscribes to a multi-racial Singapore. That has been pointed out to him. All I am asking is: is that an oversight? If it is, would the Member for Potong Pasir and the SDP amend the constitution of the SDP? He has not fully answered that. Instead he has gone on to describe that I am a socialist and what socialism is all about. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): May I make two points, Mr Speaker, Sir? When Members address the House, could they please confine themselves to the titles or the constituencies which Members belong to, instead of calling "Mr Chiam" or "Mr Ng"? That is one point. The other point is that when a Member speaks, the whole House should be silent according to the Standing Orders. If Members want to make encouraging and supporting "Hear, Hear" and so on, please do so but do not hold your stomach and laugh too loudly. Otherwise the Member speaking could not be heard clearly enough on the television. 

    The last question that I have asked myself is whether this Bill is of any disadvantage to the Opposition parties or unfair to them because at the moment all Singaporeans have a sense of fairness and fair play. They want to see that all political parties are given a fair ground to compete fairly. Some of them might feel that it is not fair to the Opposition parties which do not have enough candidates. If so, I feel that if an Opposition party thinks that they do not have enough candidates to contest in a Group Representation Constituency, they can stand in single-member constituencies, as the GRCs will not be more than half of the total constituencies. Therefore,nobody will be deprived of a fair chance. What is more relieving to one's mind is that the only Opposition MP, the Member for Potong Pasir has more than once expressed publicly that this GRC system actually would not be disadvantageous to the Opposition, it might even be advantageous to them because earlier without the GRC the Opposition might only have one candidate elected at a time, but now the Opposition party could have three Members in Parliament. So the argument that the Bill would be of disadvantage to the Opposition parties does not hold water. 

    Nation building in Singapore, to a large extent, means integration of the four ethnic groups. The multi-racial element of the Singapore society has been the dominant feature of Singapore's success since gaining independence 23 years ago. Multi-racialism is considered the best political approach for Singapore as it adopts the democratic process of governing a nation. I cannot understand why the Member for Potong Pasir finds it difficult when he said that there is no need to put multi-racialism in the SDP's constitution because to him socialist means multi-racial. I do not know. I want to ask him this. Hitler described himself as a Nazi socialist. What did Hitler do to the Jews? Is this racial harmony? I do not know why he is so afraid to put this in his constitution. Is he afraid because the First Deputy Prime Minister exposed Ling How Doong's conduct? 

    The Member for Kampong Ubi has given an answer aptly yesterday to the question posed by the Member for Potong Pasir and if I were to give one simple word on what the Malay wants, just like any other community wants or any other nation wants in the international community, I would say it is Respect. We know that respect must be earned. It cannot be taken or given. Because of this respect, we are not going to give our Prime Minister or 1DPM something that boils down to GIGO - Garbage In, Garbage Out. We have to give him the real input because we are dealing with the lives of 2.6 million people, 400,000 of whom are Muslims. Is he suggesting that we are under the armpit of our 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: He is not giving way, Mr Chiam. Could you sit down? 

    Of course, there is some opposition to this concept for different reasons. I classify these reasons into three categories: First, some people regard this system as a strategy or even a conspiracy of the PAP to deal with the Opposition. But in actual fact, this Bill provides fair competition between both sides. The Member for Potong Pasir admitted on several occasions that "it cuts both ways". That is to say, this system may also be beneficial or advantageous to the Opposition. It may, according to him, enable three Opposition candidates to be elected into Parliament at one go and as he said, if Potong Pasir, Kim Keat and Kolam Ayer or Boon Teck constituencies were to be grouped together as a GRC, then he would have a chance of defeating our 2DPM! 

    The second reason for opposing the concept of GRC is that our political system over the past 20 years has worked very well and, therefore, there is no necessity to change it. If in the past one or two years, we have paid attention to events taking place within and outside our country, we will realize that these Amendment Bills are necessary. They are precautionary and pre-emptive measures against such happenings. Here, I would like to cite certain facts that we cannot afford to ignore. The first is that so far our political system has been working well is precisely because the PAP at every general election has been deliberately putting forward a balanced slate of candidates from all races and these candidates have been accepted by our voters. I notice that in the past two general elections, the candidates put up by Opposition parties - the Singapore Democratic Party and the Socialist Front - were entirely Chinese. But even if all the political parties were to put up candidates from all races, it would still not be adequate because the expectations of the voters are now higher and their mentality has changed. They not only vote for the party but also vote for the candidate of their choice. It does not necessarily mean that the voters vote according to the race of the candidates. They want to select a candidate of higher capability and quality and at the time, a candidate who has the language ability to communicate with them effectively and to channel their feelings to the higher-ups and government. This language ability of the candidate rather than race is more important to the younger voters. I do not think they would vote according to the race of the candidate alone. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, after yesterday's day-long debate and also the debate this morning, I can definitely see one salient point, that is, the need to preserve multi-racialism in our Parliament. Why? Because it meets the political reality of Singapore. Of course, it also meets the interests of all the races of Singapore. Even the Member for Potong Pasir agreed to this point. What he disagreed to, is the GRC system. But he did not propose any practicable alternative. It seems that his approach is that since there is a need for multi-racialism, it will come about without any effort. But this attitude of allowing events to take their own course is not the practice of the Government. In tackling a matter, the Government would consider various options and work out a solution that is most suitable for dealing not only with the present situation but also taking into account the future. In the same light, the GRC system has come about under these considerations. In other words, we have good wishes that in our Parliament, there will always be the characteristics of multi-racialism. However, other than good wishes, we must also put in some measures of human efforts to institutionalize it. That is why we have arrived at this GRC system. I feel that the people of Singapore can understand 

 tion to the Bill but I have heard nobody oppose multi-racialism, not even the Member for Potong Pasir. That is good. 

    I was shocked to learn for the first time that the SDP does not have multi-racialism in its platform. And perhaps one good thing out of this debate is that he will now change his constitution or his platform to include multi-racialism. I throw this down as a challenge. 

 future elections so long as they are capable, they are of high calibre and they use the right strategies. The Member for Potong Pasir knows this and has recognized this as a fact. 

    The roles of the Malay Muslim MPs are indeed difficult and challenging. We are faced with twin roles and challenges - as Members of Parliament in multi-racial constituencies with the majority voters being non-Malays and, secondly, as a group committed to the well-being and the interests of the Malay Muslim community in Singapore. But in branding us as passengers, the Member for Potong Pasir and his like-minded people seem to think that we are working for a narrow interest and not the national interest. In fact, they are wrong. They are wrong because they seem to conclude that Malay interests and Malay well-being are always at odds or in conflict with the national well-being and the national interest. Realities, past and present, have shown that it is not so. Granted, there are indeed differences of opinion, aspiration and intention but it does not always mean direct conflict. This is because there is already acceptance that the problems of the Malays in Singapore are national problems. Otherwise, this House and the Cabinet would not have introduced the GRC concept, if there indeed were views that the issue of Malay representation is not a national problem. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that our Malay MPs should, in fact, reject the GRC concept as they will become second-class MPs because they will not enter this Parliament on their own steam. I would say that our Malay colleagues should walk into this Parliament with their heads held high in future under the GRC concept, because they would be entering Parliament linked arm-in-arm with two other Chinese MPs. Together they foster, embrace and symbolize the concept of racial harmony in Singapore. In fact, a Malay candidate will have to work as hard as their Chinese comrades during the campaigning process. In addition, when they become MPs they will have a much heavier role to play because, besides being an MP covering normal MP duties, they will have to attend to Malay issues. I would not agree with the Member for Potong Pasir who said that our Malay MPs are second-class MPs. In fact, given the heavier load, they are super-class MPs. 

    Even in developed countries, linguistic and religious differences still give rise to tension and conflicts from time to time. Yesterday, the Member for Potong Pasir referred to the USA as a melting pot and he wanted us to emulate the example set in the States. But we know that the United States is a vast country. The various minority groups can be found in different parts of the country. You have the Irish in Boston, the Jews in Brooklyn, the Scandinavians in Minnesota, Hispanics in California and Texas, and Asians in Hawaii. Have they truly integrated as one society, as one people? The Irish in Boston are known to be the strong supporters of the IRA Movement in Ireland. And, of course, the Jewish lobby is the most powerful group, the pressure group, in the United States because of their financial power and presence in the financial sector. The black caucus is found in all the big cities and there are a large number of black mayors in the cities. And each of these minority groups sends their favourite sons to Congress. 

    Sir, yesterday the Member for Potong Pasir stated that he is against the GRC because it will promote racialism and communalism. And he went on to say that although he felt the system did not disadvantage him, he would nonetheless totally reject it for the sake of nation- building and to prevent racialism. This is a serious statement indeed. But is he really sincere about it? If he is, then I would really like to know whether he would stand as a candidate for Potong Pasir in the next 

    Sir, since independence, the representation in this Chamber has always reflected the various segments of our society. First and foremost, its numbers reflect the composition of the various races in our society. It reflects the views of business and represents the interest of unions. It has a mix of academics as well as professionals. The numbers also reflect the age structure in our society. More recently, it is beginning to make attempts to represent a very important half of our population. This attempt is being reflected by our honourable colleagues from Ulu Pandan, Changkat and Yuhua. This continuing objective of constituting a Parliament to reflect all segments of our society did not come by chance. It came as a result of a conscious effort of the ruling party - a point sorely missed by the Member for Potong Pasir and critics alike. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, who unfortunately is not here this afternoon, quoted history to show that Malays have always been elected into Parliament. I was going to suggest to him that he should borrow a crystal ball because we are not talking about history. We are trying to anticipate a problem in the future: will there or will there not be a problem in the future? Every election brings about some 200,000 first-time voters onto the electoral register. By the next election, every one in two voters would be those who were either not born in 1965 or were under 10 years old in 1965. These voters have no experience whatsoever of how Singapore had come about, the difficulties that we faced, the communal riots, the tensions in the country in the early years of Singapore. It is a matter of political judgment whether these voters would vote a party slate of candidates that is racially balanced or pick candidates on their personal attributes. It is a matter of political judgment - reading of trends and how we see the trend will evolve in the future. On matters of political judgment I would back the Prime Minister anytime as against the judgment of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Although many points have been brought up by Members, in essence there are only two issues facing us. One is the principle, the other the mechanism or the details. On principle, the question is whether or not we should make provision in our Constitution and in our Parliamentary Elections Act to ensure that Parliament would always be multi-racial. That is a question of principle. On this there is total agreement, even from the Member for Potong Pasir. The agreement is unanimous. We are a multi-racial society and all Members of Parliament here support this principle that there should be multi-racial representation in Parliament. The question is how? So we narrow our debate down to one issue, how to do it? We suggest that 

    The Member for Potong Pasir does not think so.But has he offered a single suggestion on how we can entrench the right of the minority communities to be represented in Parliament? Not a single suggestion from him. Not a single suggestion to improve on the details of the workings of the formula which we have offered. Since some Members of Parliament, like the Member for Kebun Baru, have weighed several models or alternatives against GRCs, I do not propose to examine them in detail over here. I will go through very quickly the reasons why we have rejected some of these proposals. 

    Although the Member for Potong Pasir is not here, I think I should still meet some of his criticisms head on. First, we all know that he supports the principle of multi- racialism. The question then is whether he has a better alternative for us to ensure that Parliament will always be multi-racial. That is the question. Has he or has he not got a better alternative? It is not whether he rejects GRCs or not but whether he has or has not got a better alternative than GRCs. I was going to ask him: if he supports multi-racialism, would he pledge to field a multi-racial slate of candidates in the next election? That is the test. There is no use saying, "I support multi-racialism." The test is in the deeds. Would you change your constitution to reflect this point in the party's objectives? Would you field a multi-racial slate of candidates in the next election? 

 with the Workers' Party. Maybe the Party has become stronger. Maybe some MPs here are unhappy that that Party has become stronger because now it is a combined force - the Workers' Party and the Singapore United Front. But for the country that is a positive movement. You force two parties to merge in order to meet a new situation and I would urge the Member for Potong Pasir to negotiate with the Singapore Malay National Organisation to see whether or not they can merge. Then in the next election they would have candidates from the Malay community standing on a new party ticket, perhaps on SDP ticket or on a PKMS ticket. That is for them to sort out. 

    What is the advantage for us if they do merge? It forces PKMS to take a non-communal line. At the moment, that Party takes a communal line. Its job is to represent Malay interests only. If this Bill has the effect of forcing them to merge with a non-Malay Party, I think it is a positive step even though the SDP may become stronger and take one whole GRC or several GRCs from the PAP. That is not our primary concern. Our concern is to ensure that there will be long-term political stability where parties fight, contend on moderate multi-racial ground. And if Opposition parties can so merge and become a stronger Opposition as a result, we may see the beginning of a two-party system in Singapore or if not a two-party system, at least a PAP and a more credible Opposition party. Then the level of debate in this House will be raised. We will not be talking about silly proposals or silly issues but real issues, real exchanges in debate and solutions offered if the Opposition thinks that the policy of the Government is wrong. 

    I know that the public thinks that this scheme is to fix the Opposition so that the PAP can win all seats in the next election. I can disabuse them of this very easily. There are still going to be at least 40 single-member constituencies at the next elections. So there will be plenty of seats, even for those parties that cannot merge to field a GRC team to stand for election at the next general elections. 40 single-member constituencies can include Potong Pasir and it can also include Anson, had the Member for Potong Pasir 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, will you allow Mr Lim to clarify? 

  hoiyung: I do not recall having said what the Member for Potong Pasir accuses me of saying. 

  The Minister for Trade and Industry and Second Minister for Defence (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like to respond briefly to some of the points made by the Member for Rochore and the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Now, for the Member for Potong Pasir. It is a great joy to listen to him because every 45 minutes or so he hit the nail squarely on the head, for the rest of the time he hit his thumb squarely on the nail. He hit the nail squarely on the head when he said that the essence of democracy is checks and balances. In other words, how to distribute power and provide a self-checking system which makes sure that when you need to move, you can move; when you need deliberation, balance, consensus, there is some way to prevent one madcap from running away with the system. That is what an elected President is about - providing a check and balance to the power of the Cabinet. 

    Some years ago the Member for Potong Pasir made great play of the possibility that the Government might not be able to pay CPF depositors their money back when they retire, that CPF has no money and cannot pay. He has not said that recently. But what is the way which would lead to CPF being unable to pay? It is the Government taking the money, which is really CPF depositors' money, and spending it quietly, without telling you. It is your cash. CPF assets are $30 billion. They are matched against CPF liabilities, namely, your deposits. $30 billion is kept with the Finance Ministry. Finance Ministry buys Singapore government bonds. The pro- 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said later that "with an elected President this Government will never have a chance to fly solo. With all these years of training, co-pilots never have a chance to fly solo." He pays us a great compliment because he assumes that we are going to win the next election and the ones after that. We make no such complacent assumption. We fight to win elections, but we do not assume we will always win. For that matter, we do not assume that the winning government will always be a capable, honourable one. 

    I know Mr Chiam has said in Parliament that he has no aspirations of becoming a Prime Minister. hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, can I be allowed to ask for certain clarifications from the Minister for Trade and Industry? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you seek your clarification? I think you are making another speech. 

    First, may I dispose of certain points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. In the first place, this man is full of fears. And my recommendation to him is: do not act out of fear because the more you fear something, the more it will come to pass. In expressing his fears, he also expressed a number of contradictions. He wants more democracy. But when we have provided two measures that are going to create greater democracy because there is greater decentralization of powers, namely, the Town Council and now an elected Presidency, he claims that both of these are anti-democracy. And he does not like the idea that an elected MP would also be responsible for the affairs of Town Councils. 

    He also made the point that the Government has detained people because they wanted changes in the system. And here we are advocating some fundamental change in our system. He should bear in mind that there is a very real difference between trying to change the system via subversion, via revolution, via violent means, and changing the system through the open political process. The Member for Potong Pasir would not be here if we did not have a system that allowed for open political discussion. In fact, he organizes public rallies freely. He was extolling the American Constitution. But as the Minister for Trade and Industry pointed out, the American President himself is an executive President. And you have so many checks and balances in that system. In fact, it is a system which is really proving itself to be impossible for any government to exercise any authority or to govern the country successfully. 

    When we look at what has happened to many countries throughout the world, what do we find? You read the IMF reports. You read the World Bank reports. It is very depressing. So many countries in the world, developing and developed, have got huge government budget deficits. They have borrowed huge sums from abroad. They have high rates of inflation, low savings, low investment. They have currencies that are continually being devalued. How would the hon. Member for Potong Pasir like to be a Burmese, where for 30 or 40 years, he would have experienced an economy not only stagnating but going backwards. And it was only last year or a few months ago that the government ordered that the currencies above a certain face value would no longer be legal tender. By one stroke, the government wiped off millions of dollars. 

    Listening to MPs, I believe all Members of Parliament agree that our reserves represent our natural resources. They have to be protected for the sake of ourselves and our children and that we need to have a two-key mechanism. One key is held by the government and the other key held by somebody else, whether it is the elected President or an Upper House. I do not think there is disagreement on this. Mr Chiam has also agreed that it is necessary for us to safeguard our reserves. 

 before the end of this year. But am I right, because the Member for Potong Pasir was not here, that he is not opposed to our making some changes to our system in order to ensure that our reserves are not depleted? Am I right? 

    If the Member for Potong Pasir agrees with the principles as embodied in the White Paper, I think that is enough for us for today. 

 was established because the Member for Potong Pasir wanted it. On 4th March, 1987, he asked in this House if the Prime Minister would call a public inquiry to get to the bottom of the "Teh Cheang Wan Affair", and to make recommendations to prevent further corruption in high places. He then made statements which suggested that the CPIB had not been thorough in its investigations or that there was a cover-up. In the words of the Commissioners, he suggested that "there was more to be known or discovered than had been disclosed by the Prime Minister. He further gave the impression that he knew something else which the Government did not know in connection with Teh Cheang Wan." 

    'At no time during the entire duration of the Inquiry was he able to give the Commissioners the slightest indication of what he wanted from the files. Mr Chiam failed to give the Commissioners any sense of direction and purpose in his search for evidence.' 

They refused to allow him, in their words, "to go on a fishing expedition because he did not know what he was fishing for. He was merely groping in the dark hoping to find some wrongdoing but with no idea what the nature of the wrongdoing may be." Worse, according to the Commissioners, "He was not even able to say what his suspicions of wrongdoing were." They concluded that no reasonable Commission of Inquiry would have acceded to Mr Chiam's requests in these circumstances. 

 Mr Chiam's answer was: 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, we would like to take the Member for Potong Pasir seriously. But he should not follow in the steps of hoiyung: 

    (b) they could not allow Mr Chiam to rummage through all the files of the relevant Ministries of the Government to look for unspecified wrongdoings; and 

    (c) at no time during the whole of the Inquiry was Mr Chiam able to tell the Commissioners what was it that he wanted to establish from or see in the CPIB files. 

    'Mr Chiam could not have been ignorant of the fact that Singapore has an enviable reputation for the 

    'It should be recalled that Mr Chiam had said in Parliament that "if we dig deep enough, then we will find the evidence."' 

  The Prime Minister: Sir, may I ask the Member whether he can find any phrase in any legal dictionary with these three words, "lead in evidence". I was careful in asking my colleague, Prof. Jayakumar, to quote the Member for Potong Pasir 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, can you let the PM have his clarifications? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you resume your seat? 

  hoiyung: Please proceed, Mr Chiam. 

    Let me now come, Sir, to the stance taken by the Member for Potong Pasir. As the Minister has pointed out, it was the Member for Potong Pasir who called for the Commission of Inquiry. This was despite assurances given by the Prime Minister in Parliament that, first, the CPIB has concluded in its investigations that the late Minister acted alone and that no other officers were involved. Second, there were no other instances of corruption apart from the two specific instances mentioned. The Member for Potong Pasir in insisting for an open inquiry was not talk- 

    He has himself agreed to the terms of reference which he helped to draft. What do we find in the Inquiry then? The Member for Potong Pasir, after repeated questioning, has to admit that he has no evidence. If he had accepted the Prime Minister's statement at the outset, there would have been no need for such an inquiry. Having failed to produce evidence, the Member for Potong Pasir has resorted to technicalities to get out of involvement in the Inquiry. Playing on words, he got off from having to prove the allegations and accusations he levelled at the Government in Parliament earlier. He has, as the Commissioners said in the Report, to their surprise, given up the opportunity even to probe the CPIB officers. 

  hoiyung: Please let me finish. He could have said all this at the Commission and then it would have given the Commissioners a chance to rebut. Instead he chose the easy way out by saying it here where he has got protection. This does not speak well of Members of Parliament. All this evasiveness shows that the Member for Potong Pasir actually stands on very shallow and unsteady ground. He cried, "Wolf", but no wolf showed up. He alleged wrongdoings of a momentous scale --- 

  hoiyung: None surfaced. "Momentous" is not very different from "massive". Let us remind ourselves that the Government has come clean right from the start without prompting from other parties, much less the Member for Potong Pasir. The Commission of Inquiry called for by the MP for Potong Pasir merely confirmed findings concluded much earlier on, which findings had already been revealed in Parliament. It speaks well of the Government and the administration that we are prepared to uphold the integrity of our system even though it may involve very painful and difficult decisions as the case before us has demonstrated. The Government's total impartiality is to be commended. 

    The Minister for Home Affairs in his statement did express the hope that the Member for Potong Pasir would not follow in the footsteps of hoiyung: That is not your concern, isn't it? 

  hoiyung: Coming to his point that he raised earlier, his argument as to what was what - to lead in evidence or to lead evidence - I do not wish to enter into an argument as to which is correct at this point of time anyway. Whether it is to lead in evidence or to lead evidence, as far as I am concerned, it is irrelevant. What is more important is to proceed with the evidence, to proceed with helping the Commission to come out with whatever evidence that he claimed to have initially. I think everybody, not just the Commissioners but the public too, was waiting for the Member for Potong Pasir at the proceedings to come out with something dramatic. But instead, he chose to behave in the way he behaved. I do not 

    I think it is quite extraordinary that the Member today should try to come and say that he never said such a thing and accused the Commissoners of being biased towards him. I think the Commissioners were trying to do their work, finding out what evidence the Member for Potong Pasir was trying to produce. Is it not their duty to do that? Is not the whole purpose of setting up the Commission of Inquiry was to determine whether there was any evidence to prove that there were other wrongdoings apart from what was revealed? In fact, that was the whole essence of setting up the Commission of Inquiry - on the strength of the statement made by the Member for Potong Pasir. Because the Prime Minister has made it very clear that as far as the Government is concerned, it is satisfied that the investigation by the CPIB is thorough, it is in the process of investigating further, that there is no lapse in the efforts of the CPIB in 

 concerning the late Mr Teh Cheang Wan, to me is comprehensive and thorough, despite the Commission's inability to obtain cooperation from the Member for Potong Pasir who had asked in the first place for the inquiry because he suggested that there was more to be known or discovered regarding the Teh Cheang Wan affair. He not only would lead evidence, according to him, but there were also people who would assist him. He was given every opportunity to do so to support his claim, but he did not do so. And according to the report, it was after quite some time that finally the Commissioners got him to admit that he never had any evidence. 

    As a Member of the Opposition, of course, the Member for Potong Pasir has a right to ask for a Commission of Inquiry. But as the Minister for Home Affairs has said, he could have done so and argued his case for a Commission of Inquiry in a legitimate and valid way. That is to say, that he would ask that since the late Teh Cheang Wan committed suicide and no trial was possible and since the public was keen to know what happened, a Commission of Inquiry would be quite in order in the public interest provided, of course, he did not in the process try to go further and suggest that there was something that he could produce to show that the Government was trying to cover up something. 

    I think his right to ask for a Commission of Inquiry is not being questioned. It is the manner in which he went about it. And when he, as a Member of Parliament, did that in this House, of course, the members of the public naturally got excited and thought that there must be something because members of the public, or at least most of them, take very seriously what goes on in this House and therefore expected to see a lot of interesting things coming out. He was given every assistance to produce the evidence which he could not. The Commissioners had finally come to the correct conclusion that he, in fact, had no evidence. I think it would be very honourable for the Member for Potong Pasir to just accept the conclusions of the report instead of taking the opportunity today to cast doubts over the competence 

    The Government's position in response to what the Member for Potong Pasir had said regarding the late Teh Cheang Wan's case is that it is ready to hold a public inquiry into any matter of public interest so that there can be no question of cover-up." This Report before us has done precisely that. The Report concluded that there was no cover-up and that the CPIB was fearless and thorough in its investigations on the late Teh Cheang Wan case. It has also concluded that the integrity of our system to deal with corruption is intact. Going through the Report and following the proceedings over television, any reasonable person would also come to the same conclusion. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, you wanted to make your clarifications? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, please resume your seat. 

    The work of the CPIB came under very close public scrutiny. And it is indeed very gratifying to note that the Commissioners in their observation, notwithstanding what the Member for Potong Pasir said, concluded: 

 the Member for Potong Pasir, should go round making wild allegations. 

    What did the Member for Potong Pasir do? He called for this Inquiry in this House. According to the Report: 

    'Mr Chiam failed to give the Commissioners any sense of direction and purpose in his search for evidence.' 

    Sir, I believe the findings of the Commissioners is a serious indictment on the Member for Potong Pasir. The Commissioners expected the Member to be serious about this Inquiry since it was he who asked for it. The Commissioners were, in fact, too polite when they concluded that his conduct was extraordinary. Sir, in fact, his conduct was most deplorable. The Member must know as a lawyer that coffeeshop gossip is no basis to ask for a Commission of Inquiry. 

    The Inquiry was held at great public expense and I really would like to ask the Minister for Home Affairs how much did the Commission of Inquiry cost the Government. On 21st August, the Member for Potong Pasir admitted he had no additional evidence, either direct or hearsay. I hope the Member for Potong Pasir hopefully has learnt a lesson, ie, the next time when he asks for a Commission of Inquiry he better think twice. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Deputy Speaker, sometimes we utter words in this House without an appreciation of the repercussions it has outside this House. When the Member for Potong Pasir asked for a Commission of Inquiry on the 4th of March last year, it was the nature in which he asked for that Inquiry - the words he used, the expressions, his countenance, his gestures - which conveyed a total impression. All of us who have watched television know that the printed word in Hansard is an inadequate record of what took place. But we could replay the Member for Potong Pasir when he had that exchange with me. I was under no doubts whatsoever that the allegation, the insinuation, the innuendo, 

    The Member said in this Chamber that he did not impugn the integrity of the CPIB but as he got involved in the argument about to "lead in evidence", about what he was going to do at all in the Commission, having taken a somewhat audacious stand in this House, I could sympathize with his dilemma. Because to stand up and to tell the Commissioners that really it was all an error would have meant that he did not do his homework. But if he will recollect, I had offered him two choices. One to sit on the Commission and to hear the evidence - [hoiyung: I did not. [hoiyung: Prime Minister, can I interject? Mr Chiam, you do not like to be interrupted and I think others do not like to be interrupted too. If you have something to say, if you want to make any interjections, please rise from your seat and 

    The person who needs to defend himself is the Member for Potong Pasir. We are not here to accuse him. We have not accused 

    The Member for Potong Pasir is saying that the Report should be rejected. I am suggesting to him now that he can reject the Report in toto and have another three Commissioners; and this time, although he is not entitled to the CPIB files, he will get the CPIB files with the names changed so that there will be aliases, and he will then resume where he left off. Or is he saying, "Enough is enough. Just reject 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Can you respond to that, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I suggest that you be relevant to the motion under discussion? 

    'Mr Chiam made the following points: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first, may I have clarification from the Member for Potong Pasir. Since his question refers to provision for expenditure on national defence, do I take it that the question 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir looks at the provisions in the Budget, it will be clear to him that National Defence has got no provision for Gurkhas. And the Gurkhas are here not as part of the Armed Forces but as members of the Police Force for purposes of internal security and law and order. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, it is no use repeating history. Ask your supplementary question, please. 

 the confidence of the Police, let me say that I have posed the question to my Commissioner of Police. I have asked him that, as a professional police officer and as the Commissioner of Police, what was his response to the question Mr Chiam had posed, and which I had anticipated. His view was categoric. He said to me that he would not recommend the dismantling of the Gurkha Contingent now or in the near future. As to whether their presence in Singapore affects the confidence or the morale of the Police, again his answer was categorically no. The morale of the Police Force is in no way affected because they are here for special reasons and everyone knows it. 

  hoiyung: The question of the high wage cost has already been addressed last year when the cut was made in the employer's CPF contribution rate from 25% to 10%. I think that is sufficient and the experience over the last 12 months or so and the economic recovery since then bear out the adequacy of the measures taken. So there is no need for us to go further and cut the workers' pay. Is the Member for Potong Pasir so keen that we should constantly cut into workers' wages? 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng (Kebun Baru): Mr Speaker, Sir, I was inclined to leave the subject of procreation to the other Members of the House until I heard the remarks of some of the preceding Members of this House, in particular the Member for Potong Pasir. His policy for solving the anticipated shortfall in our population is not to interfere and to let nature take its course. If we follow that policy, then where is our country heading? So I think that the Member for Potong Pasir ought to look at the problem in greater depth rather than to follow his natural inclination to leave things alone. 

  hoiyung: May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir what his opinion is then? 

    It is not desirable to put workers' aspirations on hold for too long nor should it be Government policy to do so. I think it is not Government policy to do this. And here let me turn again to what the Member for Potong Pasir earlier said. He described it as an error of policy on the part of the Government because from 1979 to 1984 we had corrective wage policy and he attributes the recession to this high wage policy. The fact is that for several years before 1979 we had kept wages low. And because we had kept wages low, we were not getting the high technology industries that we ought to have got and which other countries obtained because they had allowed wages to float with the market. But after the corrective wage policy, I think this is how I interpret the Minister for Finance's statement when he said, "From 1980 to 1984, wage increases in Singapore far outstripped productivity growth." So it is because of the second part, after the corrective wage policy that we have run into problems with high wage cost and it is this particular problem that we are addressing. I think it is because between 1979 and 1981 the Government had recommended a corrective wage policy that had given our Singapore workers the wages which Government felt was due to them, that Government had the moral authority in 1985-86 and this year to talk about wage restraint to be exercised by workers in Singapore. 

    It is natural and easy to criticize or condemn a suggestion. But to do something for the benefit of the public at large and in the interest of the nation is not easy. Only those who shoulder responsibilities can feel the brunt of their tasks. I feel somewhat disappointed with the Member for Potong Pasir who advanced some strong arguments but the end result was that he had nothing to offer on how we could together revive our economy. Unfortunately he is not in the Chambers now, so I better get on with my speech. 

    Sir, now I would like to touch on a few points which were raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He is not here now but I think the points that he raised were not quite correct. 

    First, he said that he was against the high wage increase between 1979 and 1984. Of course, with the wisdom of hindsight, we could say that that was not affordable. But at the time when the economy was achieving a high growth rate and the Government wanted to allow the ordinary workers to have a bigger share of the economic pie, I think that is not necessarily a bad move. By doing so a lot of ordinary people have benefitted. We have raised their savings, raised their standards of living, and I am sure the Member for Potong Pasir is not against that. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Potong Pasir has any suggestions as to how we can further improve the image, we would be very happy to hear from him. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir should be aware that recently we have embarked on quite a massive exercise to improve the image of the nursing profession. 

  hoiyung: Are you giving way, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, just a point of clarification. The Member for Potong Pasir just now referred to me and quoted me as the authority for a statement that we can allow up to 25% of our workforce to be foreign workers. I think if he confirms with the Hansard he will see that I said no such thing and my words were that I would be astonished if the number of foreign workers in Singapore reaches 25%. I think that is quite a different proposition, and I suggest that the Member makes a correction before this House. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please sit down so that I can say something? To cut the whole thing short, I suggest you look up Hansard later on and then you can come back and make your clarification. All right? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I may pursue my point of clarification. The exchange took place on 31st August last year [Hansard, Vol. 49, col. 1539]. The Member for Potong Pasir asked me: "To what level the Government will stop the inflow of foreign workers, 10%, 11% or 12% of our total labour force, or what? Or when the need arises, it can expand as high as it could go? Is that the policy?" And my answer was clear. "Our policy is to have a controlled inflow. We do not have an absolute limit in mind. But I very much doubt that foreign workers would exceed one-quarter of our labour force." Sir, may I ask the Clerk to hand this to the Member so he can compare that with what he said this morning. [Copy handed to Mr Deputy Speaker.] 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, any right minded Singaporean will support this budget. Just now the Member for Potong Pasir said it is an election budget. No sound country in the world would introduce a budget that would do harm to the people during recession time or election year. This is a well-thought budget and a farsighted one. The Newsweek of the 22nd February has a cover page story entitled "The Pacific Century". In that issue, there were several articles which described, analysed and explained why the next century would be the Pacific Centry. I looked at the world map. I looked particularly at the western shores of the Pacific Ocean. I noticed that from Beijing down to Singapore, peoples of these countries use chopsticks. So from the cultural point of view, I would like to say that this would be the age of the people who use chopsticks. Some may say I sound like being Chinese chauvinistic. Japamnese use chopsticks. The four little dragons of Asia which are closely behind Japan economically are dominating the development of the Pacific century. Closely behind them is the big dragon, China. Recently according to the newspaper report, Thailand will be the fifth little dragon. According to the IMF, in respect of the amount of foreign exchange reserve, Japan is number one. Taiwan is third. West Germany is second. Among these top three, none of them is an English-speaking country. Therefore, from this we can ascertain that in the next 

 Member for Potong Pasir has read the Hansard record, does he concede that I never said the words which he attributed to me this morning? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, do you stand corrected? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is entitled to his inferences but he should beware of attributing them as direct quotations to me when I made a precise and a different statement. So I request the Member to have the honour to concede this to the House. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has stated that this budget is an election budget. I would like to argue against that point. I do not believe that it is an election budget. Our Government is not a short-term view government which takes to implementing policies just for a one year purpose for good election results. I believe our Government is a long-term government which believes in taking a longer-term perspective. If the Government has been taking a short-term view, it would easily have offered many goodies and incentives in this year's budget. In fact, if you look through the budget for this year, I would say that it is a "no problem" budget, a budget whereby the Government has in place most of the major fiscal, tax and revenue policies. It is only a matter of some fine tuning to cater for special industries like the service sector and R & D promotion. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is not here. Just now he mentioned how, as MPs representing labour we should try to speak for the workers. Usually we do not want to criticize and exert any pressure on the Member for Potong Pasir, lest people say we are bullying him by our number, but very often he makes unwarranted challenges to others. Therefore, we have to stand up and clarify the matter. 

    Here I would like to remind the Member for Potong Pasir that he should do his home work properly and not try to challenge us on what we as trade unionist MPs should do or what not to do for our workers and our nation. If Singapore does not have a CPF scheme, how are we going to achieve home ownership? If we do not have enough CPF savings, how are we going to reduce labour cost by 15% in a recession? I hope the Member for Potong Pasir will be able to point out to us which country in the world has been able to do this in times of recession by reducing labour cost rapidly. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also admitted that there are social problems associated with foreign workers and cautioned that we should not depend on foreign workers in the long run. I do not know why now he is against the increase in levy on foreign workers. These are rather contradictory. I understand that many employers are not also much unhappy about the levy increase on foreign workers although it would be better if there were no increase. What they are not happy 

    Sir, I cannot understand what the Member for Potong Pasir meant when he said earlier this morning that this is an election budget. He has failed to point out in his speech what the give-aways are in this Budget. In fact,there is no give-away. The PAP has not won elections in the past by adopting give-away budgets and it is not about to do so now or in the future. If the voters are expecting give-aways in this Budget, I think they are going to be disappointed. Due credit must be given to the Ministry of Finance for adopting a cautious Budget in spite of the upswing in our economy and pressure to relax the belt -tightening measures which we have put in place during the recession years. 

    Sir, on the long-term CPF rates. The CPF contribution forms part of the workers' wages. When the rate of employers' contribution was reduced during the last recession, it was on the understanding that the reduction was temporary and will be restored when the economy recovers. We have now agreed on the long term CPF rates which is 20% on the part of the employees and 20% as employers' contribution. I agree that we have to make gradual adjustments over a period of time to move towards the targeted CPF rates. While I understand that adjustments must be made when the GDP growth is good, I hope that the adjustments can be made as soon as possible. The cut was made on the basis of an understanding that it will be restored when recovery is achieved. I cannot accept the call made by the Member for Potong Pasir that the CPF rates should not be further increased. I would like to stress that CPF forms part of workers' wages and any call not to increase CPF is really trying to do the workers in. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has asked how the Government intends to improve the lot of families in our society whose gross income is less than $750 per month. A family who earns $750 per month is not poor. It can afford to own its own 3-room HDB flat. The lot of such a family has improved as the fortunes of Singapore have risen. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson should have listened carefully to my reply. As a Government, we are committed to improving the lot of all Singaporeans. And as stated in the President's Address, we will pay special attention to those who are not able to keep pace with the economic progress of Singapore. When I said that we could not totally eradicate poverty, I also said that we have to be realistic. As a Government, we are committed to improving the lot of these people, but do not expect that total eradication of poverty can be achieved. 

  hoiyung: No society has done so and I hope that the Member for Anson would be able to tell us how this can be done in Singapore. We have been asking him for his programme of action on many things. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, it appears that the Member for Potong Pasir has only absorbed part of my answer which I gave just now, ie, on the construction cost, and he appears not to have absorbed the other parts. In the building industry, the total cost, as I have stated in my answer, is the structural cost, the land cost, the infrastructural cost, the financing cost, the professional fees. These added together form the total cost of the flat. If he is just taking part of the costs, then it does not constitute the total cost. It is just like when a person is going to buy a motor-car, say, a Mercedes-Benz 190. He asks the salesman of the firm, Cycle & Carriage, which sells the car, "What is the cost of these four tyres?" The salesman says, "These four tyres cost $600." Then he says, "This is most unreasonable. The tyres cost $600. How can you sell the car for $100,000?" 

  hoiyung: Please remain seated, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: I am answering the question. I am just illustrating that if a person is asking for the cost of a car, it must be the cost of the whole car and not just the cost of the four tyres. So if the Member for Potong Pasir is asking for the cost of the flat, as I have stated here, it must be the construction cost, the infrastructural cost, the financing cost, the professional fees and, most important of all, the land cost. I have added up all the costs for him to show that the subsidy is extremely heavy because the subsidy provided by the HDB constitutes 99% of the selling price of the flat. I have stated this very clearly. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, will you please resume your seat and allow the Minister to give his reply? If you are not satisfied, you may pose another supplementary question. Carry on, Mr Teh. 

  hoiyung: Because the hon. Member for Potong Pasir repeats the question and I have to repeat the same answer. 

  hoiyung: Construction cost is higher than the selling prices of flats. Of course, and if the Member for Potong Pasir adds the other costs, it would be much higher. It is just like when a person is buying a flat from any private developer. He cannot ask the private developer what is the structural cost of the flat. Of course, the private developer will say, "No. My cost is not just for the structure alone. It must include the architect's fee. It must 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir is talking about construction cost. He cannot buy a flat without the infrastructure, without the architect preparing the plan, without the land. What is he buying? He must buy the flat with the whole infrastructure. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: The second point is about the unit cost. I can apportion the unit cost for the Member for Potong Pasir. Or he can work it out himself. It is the total cost divided by the number of units. If he wants the cost of each individual unit, I can apportion it out and I can send it to him. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, it appears that the Member for Potong Pasir has not read or does not understand the accounts. The Annual Report shows quite clearly how this grant or Government subsidy is arrived at. In the old accounting system, the HDB usually incurs a deficit. In other words, the HDB's income is less than its expenditure and the deficit is being subsidized by Government in the form of a grant. This is the grant given annually by the Government when the HDB suffers a deficit in its income and expenditure. If the Member for Potong Pasir does not quite understand this grant, I would suggest that he goes back and read the HDB's accounts. 

  hoiyung: Since the Member has some accountants, if I remember correctly reading it in the papers, assisting him on the preparation of the 19 conditions which he sent to me, they would be able to enlighten the Member for Potong Pasir how that subsidy has been arrived at. Very simply, the housing subsidy granted by the Government is the difference between the income and the expenditure in the HDB's accounts. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, there is no misleading and there is no inconsistency. We debated this on 18th March as well as on 29th March. I clearly said then that there were no figures. I did refer, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, to examples of many instances at the check-points when such foreigners came. But the Member for Anson must not be so naive or ridiculous to believe that all those who would want to circumvent our immigration regulations, whether for adoption purposes, whether for arms smuggling, whether for drug trafficking, would openly come to the check-point to declare their intent to do so. 

    I come now to the comments of the Member for Anson. I note that he prefaces them by stating his general support for the defence of Singapore, and these comments were supported by the Member for Potong Pasir. I presume, therefore, that this is more than a generality or a platitude and, in fact, the Opposition Members not only support defence in the abstract, but 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Thirdly, the question of the competent authority which was raised by the Member for Anson. This is a detail which we will be discussing in the Select Committee. However, it is sufficient to note here that, in fact, this is not arbitrary, neither nebulous. The competent authority will be gazetted by the Minister under clause 4(1) of the Bill. 

    I come finally to the Member for Anson's substantive point, which has to do with Parliament and why we have not followed the British all the way in requiring that the 

    I must carry on, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, because I see time is running on. On the 1st of May at a meeting for trade unions, attended by about 1,000 people, the First Deputy Prime Minister was thinking aloud about the social unrest in Singapore that had been noted by an American company, the Business Environment Risk Information. The First Deputy Prime Minister tried to explain what was the cause of this social unrest that was noted by this company. And he said, "Could it be the loss of Anson in a by-election to the Workers' Party in 1981?" May I ask the First Deputy Prime Minister to say in this House what is it that he is trying to say in that? Because I do not understand it. Neither do the people of Singapore understand it. Is the First Deputy Prime Minister saying that there is social unrest in Singapore because Anson voters elected an Opposition Member into Parliament in 1981? Are you saying that there is social unrest in Singapore because in 1984, the voters in Anson and Potong Pasir elected Opposition Members? Because if you are saying that, Mr First Deputy Prime Minister, I am saying to you that you are completely out of touch with reality. So will you please explain your stand? 

    Lastly, let me advise the Member for Potong Pasir because I live in Potong Pasir and because I still have a little hope for him. He has said in Parliament that he would be a loyal Opposition Member. I hope he would keep to his promise by his deeds and not follow the example of the Member for Anson. I hope he can really contribute this little bit to the fostering of a true Opposition in the interest of our nation. 

    The Member for Anson has stated that he has been taking part in General Elections since 1972. This is the success of our democracy. At this juncture, I would like to reminisce on an episode in the history of China. In the Sung Dynasty, there was one person by the name of Shima Kuan. From my study of the Chinese history, he was one of the great leaders of the opposition in pursuit of democracy. He vehemently criticized the then Wan Ang Shig administration. What he did was levelling criticisms at something factual and not making groundless allegations. What he said was meant to unite the people to build the nation, but not to divide the people and to destroy the country. 

  In Malay): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, when the Member for Anson moved a motion to express regret at the obstructionist measures adopted by the Government towards what he alleged to be the growth of genuine parliamentary Opposition, I thought that he was raising a very important issue which would determine the future course of political development in the Republic. Regrettably, Sir, I am compelled to oppose the motion not because I am sitting on this side of the House, but because the matter which is beautifully packaged, in fact, exposes nothing. 

    Let us ponder why the hon. Member for Anson has moved his motion. The important point that he wishes to raise in the motion centres around his inability to have access to facilities. Complaints of difficulty in getting permits, I consider to be the travail experienced by any Opposition political party in Parliament. In the past, the People's Action Party had experienced similar difficulties. In fact, in the 5O's, opposition to the PAP was very much more intense. The Member for Anson recalled that in the 5O's, the Prime Minis- 

    In 1959, three years after the contest of ideas, the PAP obviously had better ideas. Since the Member for Anson had been elected in the by-election, having been defeated for many years, and again re-elected in the last general elections, has he offered credible alternative views that can convince the people that the Opposition can offer better views to the people of Singapore? I do not think so. So let us examine the arguments advanced by the Member for Anson. First, he says that the PAP Government is determined to crush or to muzzle any form of criticism put up by the Opposition Parties. He says, "to silence the critics". It was under such conditions that the Members of the Workers' Party and the Singapore Democratic Party had been elected. Where then is the justification that there is no freedom of choice, no freedom of voicing opinions, no freedom to conduct campaigns? If these freedoms are really absent, it certainly follows that the two hon. Members would not be in this Chamber. 

    The second point is that he demands that the Government declare its stand. He asks, what is the political direction that Singapore will take in the future? I feel that the reply has already been given to the Member for Anson to the effect that every four or five years the PAP Government return to the people for its mandate, through clean and open general elections without the necessity of inviting observers from the United Nations to corroborate this state of affairs. We return to the people in order to get a fresh mandate. That is the quintessence of the democratic process which has been enjoyed by the Opposition Parties. 

    So if we scrutinize carefully the debate and the points put forth by the Member for Anson, in truth, I am amazed at the confused state of his mind in moving this motion. What is most regrettable to me is that the Member for Potong Pasir who has hitherto earned my respect as being a reasonable man has also fallen into this abyss by supporting the motion. Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, once again, may I ask, has the alleged restriction on the freedom of speech, freedom of choice, resulted in his garnering less votes? Is the question of obtaining the use of classes in community centres a matter that will determine the democratic pattern of Singapore in the future? 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson makes a habit of stating inaccurate information in the form of a question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please resume your seat. I do not understand what you are trying to clarify. You are strictly out of order. Mr Yatiman. 

    Finally, this point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir where he had this bright idea that we should use the levy collected to subsidize and pay local workers more. This sound very good on the TV, in the papers. But in actual fact, it is no more than politicking, in my opinion; because if the Government were to forgo the levy and the foreign workers are not subject to CPF, then employers will find the foreign workers much cheaper than local workers and they will tend to hire foreign workers at the expense of the local workers. And if you use this levy, the way it is suggested, will the employers really use the savings to pay local workers more? Or will they just pocket it? All I can say is "Good try, Mr Chiam." 

    I think from now on Singaporean workers will have to listen very carefully to what the Member for Potong Pasir says in the Parliment. Yesterday he advocated that the employer's CPF rate which has been cut from 25% to 10% should not be restored. He seems to have forgotten that workers have endured the cut as a temporary measure to help the economy to recover. Now the Member says there should be no restoration at all. Instead, he held out the idea of using the levy increase to pay local workers higher wages. If you examine this more closely, as I said, it is no more than politicking. Thank you. 

    Tax competitiveness. To begin with, I would like to thank the Member for Potong Pasir who has kindly enlightened this House that Hong Kong had reduced their corporate and personal tax rates by a percentage point or around 6-7% and that we should be mindful of what Hong Kong is doing. I would in turn remind him that he seems to have forgotten that our corporate and personal tax rates were cut by 7 percentage points or around 7% i 1986. Our tax cuts since 1985/86 have injected something like S$3 billion into the economy compared to the HK$2.7 billion, he claims, for Hong Kong. 

    I would like to inform the Member for Potong Pasir that Singapore corporate competitiveness vis-a-vis the other NICs, including Hong Kong, are carefully monitored continuously. Our effective corporate tax rates are lower than Hong Kong in many instances because of the following: 

    Incentives to promote agrotechnology. Specifically, the Member for Potong Pasir suggested granting incentives to promote the agrotechnology industry. In my Budget speech, I extend the industrial building allowance and double deduction of R & D expenses to the agrotechnology industry. This is in line with our policy to develop the service sector. The agrotechnology sector is also eligible for pioneer incentive provided they satisfy EDB's guidelines. This pertains largely to the extent of benefits they generate for Singapore. 

    Deductibility of overseas business expense. The Member for Potong Pasir has maintained that overseas business expenses are not automatically deductible and that IRD requires proof that contracts are secured before a deduction is allowed. 

    I now turn to the statement by the Member for Potong Pasir that he does not support the budget. That he does not support the budget is no surprise as it seems de rigueur for the Opposition to oppose anything and everything put up by Government. What surprises me is the convoluted logic underlying his opposition. He says that the budget is no good because it is an election budget, for apart from the increase in tobacco duties, it hardly touches the man-in-the-street. I am amazed at this statement. Is he suggesting that he is disappointed because taxes were 

    I have something to say regarding the Member for Potong Pasir's statements on the but will not flog the issue again as the Minister for Labour has already dealt with it. 

  hoiyung: The answer to the Member for Anson is no. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson, since his entry into this Chamber, has frequently talked about the lack of parliamentary democracy, the suppression of individual freedom, fundamental rights, freedom of organization, freedom of free expression and so on. I think most Singaporeans will not agree with his view that in Singapore there exists a form of totalitarian state where there is suppression of individual freedom, where there is no opportunity for people to express themselves. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson in his motion talked about the growth of parliamentary Opposition. Any political Party that aspires to grow must have, among other things, effective leadership. Does his Party have effective leadership? The Party must have a good organization. Has his Party a good organization? The Party must be able to appeal to voters. Has his Party the appeal? And last but not least, it must have a good programme. Here, in this Chamber, Sir, Ministers of the Government have constantly asked the Opposition Member: What is your programme? What are your proposals? What suggestions can you give to enhance our economic growth, full employment, eradication of poverty? There was no response whatsoever. No programme. No effective organization. No effective leadership. 

    So, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I suggest to the Member for Anson that if he aspires to develop the Opposition, he must fulfil these pre-requisites. And one of the 

    I wish to thank the Member for Anson for retracing history back to 1956 and quoting the speech made by our Prime Minister when he was in the Opposition in the then Legislative Assembly. I only wish that the Member had made a deep reflection as to why after only three years in the Opposition, he could become the Prime Minister, and since 1959 had continuously been the Prime Minister and carried on with the task of delivering the goods to the people of Singapore, although his comrades have been succeeded by new activists to shoulder the responsibilities of governing Singapore in the years ahead. 

    What is regrettable today is that the Member for Potong Pasir has also fallen into this quagmire when he echoed the Member for Anson. In his speech, if my memory is correct, he stated that we have inherited a parliamentary system which is 500 years old, it is an unwritten constitution, one which is based only on customs and traditions. I think his statement is incomplete. Let us revert to the British Constitution. One would conclude, firstly, that it was not written, that is to say, it has never been wholly reduced to writing. Secondly, the statement that the British Constitution is not written does not mean that they possess no important constitutional documents. It only means that the Constitution is not embodied in any single document. 

  hoiyung: On what point are you rising, Mr Chiam? Is it on a point of order or a point of clarification? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Order. Please resume your seat, Mr Chiam. May I remind hon. Members that there should be no further unnecessary interruptions. 

    Therefore, again on credibility, I wish to address the two Opposition Members here that, first, they must comprehend fully these major issues. Then we can take note of the developments in our country. Our developments have our own background. We may have borrowed our Constitution from others, but it is adapted to our own conditions. And Singapore, hon. Members, is not in Britain or in America or elsewhere, but Singapore is our own country. We must of necessity mould and shape Singapore based on our own circumstances. Only then can we contribute to the progress of our country. If the Member for Anson indulges in trivialities such as, numbered ballot papers - the numbers are still there - it is already a stale issue, and yet he is able to enter into Parliament. How then can he charge that this Government is attempting to obstruct him? 

    There are many other issues about which, I think, he should first enhance his credibility before bringing them up. For instance, the question of the HDB accounting system which is now history. It has been deliberately distorted by the Member for Potong Pasir. So all these matters must be seen in the context of the world at large and the world surrounding us and adapted to our development accordingly. I am confident that if we can truly take cognizance of this fact, then only can we claim to be the elected representatives of the people, to protect their interests not only for the next 25 years but for ever. Only then can 

  hoiyung: I certainly do. Sir, listening to the Member who moved the motion and his supporter, the Member for Potong Pasir, I feel obliged to make a few comments. 

    What does the Member for Anson or the Member for Potong Pasir expect the PAP to do? Nurture and build up the Workers' Party or the SDP? Hand over the grassroots organizations to these two political parties? Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the real issue is, what should, in my mind, be our 

    The hon. Member for Anson, and goaded on by the hon. Member for Potong Pasir, wallows in parliamentary halftruths. We can do without this in this House. As my colleague, the Member for Serangoon Gardens has said earlier, what are the acid tests of a successful and effective Opposition in Parliament? To my mind, the key tests are, I would like to repeat here, political leadership, innovation, credibility, loyalty and political organization. To this question, my colleague has already answered where the Opposition political parties stand. What then are the contributions from the Worker's Party and the SDP? "Opposition for opposition's sake," as Ramsay MacDonald says, "is a crime against the state". He further argued that opposition to legislation should not be carried on beyond the Second Reading stage, and that after this, the Opposition should concern itself with seeking to improve details within the broad principles of the legislation. "The Opposition has no right to obstruct in the sense of making Parliament barren or unproductive." I hope the two hon. Members would bear this in mind since they are in this House also at the expense of our taxpayers. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson obviously has taken great joy in casting doubts on all 

 actions and motives of the Government. He seeks to erode and diminish public confidence in our institutions. On the one hand, the hon. Member decried the integrity and legitimacy of grassroots organizations like the RCs. In fact, he has given them many labels. In the same breath, he has assailed the PAP for "obstructing" his access to such organizations. Sir, such simulated and manufactured anger over bogus issues cannot help the Workers' Party win elections. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, yesterday the Member for Potong Pasir made a big song and dance about planting a tree in the Potong Pasir Constituency. I was also offered this exotic plant from China to be planted in my Constituency. Sir, tree planting is a very serious business of the Government. The Government has a Tree Planting Campaign every year. Tree planting in Singapore, as I know, on special occasions, is a privilege given to visiting dignitaries, such as Heads of State. I do not think the Member for Potong Pasir qualifies under this criteria at this stage. The right time to do is during the Tree Planting Campaign, which is normally in November. The Member for Potong Pasir can participate in the Tree Planting Campaign and plant the particular exotic plant from China in his Constituency, as I did in my Constituency last November. I am told that my colleague, the Member for Teck Ghee, is also waiting for permission from the HDB to plant a similar tree in his Constituency. So please wait. There is plenty of time. The Tree Planting Campaign comes on in November. 

    One was the example brought up by the Member for Anson on the refusal of the People's Association to allow classes to be held in the Anson Community Centre. The contention was that the refusal was obstructionist. The Member was not precise actually as to who wants these classes. If it is the people of Anson, then it has nothing to do with obstructing the Opposition. But if it is asked by the Workers' Party, then I have this to say. In fact, the 

    The same goes with the allegation by the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday. Again, this was mentioned by the Member for Chong Boon with regard to the planting of some exotic plant to commemorate the setting up of the office, to commemorate the victory of the SDP or whatever. I would like him to know that the same ruling would apply to PAP MPs if they applied for permission to plant a tree to commemorate the opening of a branch, victory of the Party, their birthday or whatever. Again, what I am trying to impress is that rules devised by the People's Association or by the HDB apply equally to all, without exception, and for rules to be effective, they have got to be applied as such. 

    The second impression is that since we have two Opposition Members in this House, whenever we are debating on any subject when a PAP MP stands up to speak or to rebut the speeches of the Opposition Members, the impression given to the TV audience would be that we are encircling and attacking the Opposition Members and would sympathize with them as it is human nature to have sympathy for the weak. But the question is if we do not rebut the motion and speeches made by the Member for Anson, there will be two possible consequences. The first is when his arguments are conveyed through the mass media, the TV, a confusing impression is created. The second is that if his arguments on this motion are not rebutted, then it would be an insult to the intelligence of the people of Singapore. So, I would use what had been said by Mencius that I am not argumentative but I have to argue. 

    As we all know, there are more than 10 registered political Parties in Singapore. Why have they not been able to get the support of the people? Is it due to the suppression or obstruction of the Party in power? No. Mainly, it is because these political Parties could not produce anything to be appreciated by the people. They could not convince the people that they are reliable, trustworthy, or worth anything. They only come out during the general elections to take part in the election, after which, they will disappear without a trace. If you say that in the past 25 years, the people of Singapore have not elected any Opposition Party because of the suppression or obstruction by the Party in power, then how can you explain the fact that today in this House, there are two Opposition Members sitting in their seats. We all know that the Member for Anson came into this House in the 1981 by-election. At last year's general election, another Member was added, the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs and Second Minister for Law (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, it had not been my intention to speak on the motion, but I decided that it was necessary after listening to the two speeches by the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday. Sir, in the two speeches, the Opposition Members gave the impression, and developed the notion, that some fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution were being violated, that some grave contravention of an essential right of the Opposition was being contravened. I noted, Sir, that when the Member for Anson began his speech introducing his motion, he said that the motion concerned, I quote from my memory, "constitutional rights, liberties and freedoms". This is the essential pillar on which his motion stands. Constitutional rights have been violated! The Member for Potong Pasir echoed the same line when he talked about the rights of the Opposition MPs to be treated equally. That was how it was quoted in the Straits Times. 

    Let us look at the points raised, Sir, by the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir, points brought forth in support of the general notion that there has been a breach of some "constitutional rights, liberties and freedoms." 

    Planting trees on public property. This has been dealt with by the Member for Chong Boon and others. Even PAP MPs cannot plant trees in public property without complying with the laws and regulations. So what is the Member for Potong Pasir alleging? We will, if he wants, invite him to our annual Tree Planting Day. But if he feels that this notion of constitutional rights have been violated, then make out a case. 

    Schools Council and visiting schools. Is there a violation of a law, of the Constitution, by not allowing the Member for Potong Pasir to visit schools when classes are in session? Is there a violation of our laws and Constitution? Is there a violation, Sir, of the role of a loyal Opposition in denying them the right? Because this right is also denied to PAP MPs. I would like to know which PAP MP has visited schools during the school teaching hours other than to officiate at official functions. Which PAP MP has been asked to sit in on the Schools Council which is dealing with professional matters? Is there a denial of the role of the constitutional Opposition? If so, the two Members of Parliament for Anson and Potong Pasir ought to know that the remedy for violations of Constitutions are clear. They can take a mandamus in a court. Yes. If anyone wants to come to this House to allege a grave violation of 

    I would say there is another test, Sir, on which I will close. The Member for Anson began his speech yesterday by referring to certain speeches made by the Prime Minister during the days when the PAP was in the Opposition. I have studied the Hansards, of the era when the PAP was in the Opposition. I would like to ask a very simple question. When the PAP was in the Opposition, did it ask for the sharing of governmental functions? Did it beg to be involved in the rights and duties of the Government which was in power? If it did, I would like to ask him to cite me chapter and verse of when and how the PAP, which was then in Opposition, sought or begged for rights which were, properly speaking, governmental functions. What the PAP did, Sir, then, was to perform the role of a loyal Opposition. The PAP put forward alternatives, criticized the government which was in power, explained why its policies were not in the long-term interest of Singapore. We came out with a Manifesto on the economy, political future and other directions in which Singapore should go. The people elected us in 1959, elected us again and again. And, Sir, we will continue to do our best to win the hearts and minds of the people. We must. This is our sacred trust and responsibility. We know that the electors are changing. We know that we must continue to persuade them and this we will do. But to come to this House and to allege that we 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin (MacPherson): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, at first, I decided not to speak on this motion moved by the Member for Anson because I expected him to play an old gramophone record which will emanate the same tune. But this time he tried to be a little melodramatic by saying that the alternative, to him, is armed revolution. And to justify his statement, he quoted the Prime Minister's speech made in the Legislative Assembly in 1956. How absurd can he be? Everyone knows that the conditions today are completely different from the conditions in 1956. In 1956, there was revolution, armed struggle. And, fortunately, because of the PAP Government's just and firm rule, we do not have such a revolutionary situation. 

    I think the motive of the Member for Anson, and he is supported by the Member for Potong Pasir, is that they would like to try, if they can, to rouse certain people to feel that there is some revolutionary fervour and I think they have failed to do so. Therefore, they now try to smear the Government by making false allegations of discrimination and they have, as the papers said, produced exhibits. May I say that the exhibits they have produced are bogus exhibits. First of all, they alleged that they could not organize classes in the Anson Community Centre to exploit the emotions; they say, for children of poor parents. May I ask the Member for Anson, in particular, what right has he, as an MP, to demand that he hold classes in a community centre? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am glad that I have given way to the Member for Anson. By his statement it is quite obvious that it is he who is trying to mislead this House. 

  hoiyung: I did not say that. I said what right has he got to demand that as an MP, fie and his Workers' Party has the right - 

    Let me turn to the Member for Potong Pasir. He also produced some exhibits which are equally bogus. First, he said, why is it that the HDB is not giving him an MP's office and is delaying? Can I tell him this? The RCs had to wait one year before they were given an office. They had to prove that they were worthy of an office. 

  hoiyung: Further, let me tell the Member for Potong Pasir that in the old days, the PAP MPs had to search for their own premises to establish their office or PAP Branch. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: Sir, let me continue by saying that the Member for Potong Pasir has nothing more earth-shaking or important to raise in this House except minor things, as we have already heard him. 

    The second exhibit which he raised is about not being able to plant the exotic plant which he had been presented with, obviously for his own glorification. The way the Member for Potong Pasir has been making his demands, it amounts to him regarding Potong Pasir as his own farm and own estate. 

  Mr Chua Sian Chin: First, he wanted to rear chickens. And he has thought it over that chickens may not be a viable proposition, he now wants to plant trees. But common sense will tell us that we do not just plant trees haphazardly. Only when you do not have order in the country that such things happen. But it is not so in Singapore. The Member for Potong Pasir should realize that if he plants too many trees close together without any order and professional expertise, the trees will not grow because they need sunlight. Further, as far as plants are concerned, and to beautify an estate, you need to have landscape architects and this is not a function of an MP. This is a function of experts employed by the Government or the authority in charge of beautifying an estate. 

  Mr Tang See Chim (Chua Chu Kang): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I just want to make a very short point. I had no intention originally of speaking but after listening to the Members for Anson and Potong Pasir, I think I should clear some of the misconceptions that they have created. They seem to think, especially the Member for Potong Pasir, that they should be appointed to the position of Advisers of grassroots organizations like the CCC, CCMC and RC, as of right, simply because they are MPs of these constituencies. They are wrong. They should know better. As lawyers, they should know that there is no constitutional or legal duty on the Government to appoint them as Advisers to these grassroots organizations. Indeed this point was very clearly spelt out by the Minister for Home Affairs and Second Minister for Law. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Please resume your seat, Mr Chiam. Carry on, Mr Tang. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am sorry that the Member for Potong Pasir, who is a lawyer, does not even know the legal constitution of these grassroots organizations. "Grassroots organizations" is a generic term. Legally, the CCCs and the RCs are registered societies. The CCMCs are set up by the People's Association, which itself is a statutory body, May I recommend the Member to look up the legal position. 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, in these last few minutes before the lunch break, I would like to refer to the remarks made by the Member for Anson in regard to the National Day dinner in 1982, in Anson. He alleged that the residents were forced to attend the dinner. Can this be true? On the one hand, he praised the voters of Anson for having the guts and gumption to elect him into Parliament and this in itself is proof of our democracy and proof that the people of Anson cannot be cowed into going to a dinner. What proof can he give us? Can he provide us with any proof today that there were people who were forced to attend the National Day dinner in Anson? 

    The point has been raised also about the MP's office. The Member for Anson said that it took him eight months to get his office. I have now waited five months, next month will be six and I do not see my office coming in the seventh month either. I hope that I can get my office in the eighth month. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has also referred to what our First Deputy Prime Minister has said about political self-renewal in the PAP leading to political stability in our country. This was also made an election issue when he was asked why was the renewal process in the PAP being played up in the papers. If anybody were to look at this problem rationally and objectively, they will understand this problem. Do we not look into the succession problems of political parties, whether in the government or in the opposition, in other countries? Are we not worried or are we not planning and asking questions about what would happen if the governments in other countries were to be replaced by an opposition? Do we not want to know what would happen in Japan, Australia, the US, the UK and even our neighbour, Malaysia? What about their succession problems, their leadership problems? Is it not common sense that this will relate itself to political stability? 

    The Member for Anson took over the Workers' Party in 1972. He immediately fielded 27 candidates for the elections held in that year. He did not win a single seat. In 1976, he fielded 22 candidates. All lost. In 1980, all his eight candidates were rejected. In 1984, he fielded 15 candidates, He was the only member of his Party to win a seat. Another Member from another Party won another seat. The PAP won 77 of the 79 seats. Of course, there was a swing of 

    The Member for Anson wants to know how the Government will help the growth of the Opposition Parties in Singapore. He knows full well that political Parties are rivals. They are political adversaries. They fight, sometimes tooth and nail, to win the right to govern Singapore. That is a fact of parliamentary democracy. Parties collect candidates. They stand for elections with a programme to sell to the people, and they fight to earn the right to run the country. Even the Opposition Parties themselves are competing. We see here, in this House, the Member for Anson always being the first to jump up, whether it is to move a motion or to make a speech. So there is this competition going on. Who is in fact the leader of the Opposition? I think these are facts. If political Parties do not compete with one another, whether they are in the opposition or whether in the government, then in fact the members should be helping one another in the same Party, selling the same programme. A fundamental fact of parliamentary democracy is that political parties are rivals. 

    Indeed, the Member for Potong Pasir in his maiden speech in this House on 4th March 1985, declared that he would not be loyal to the PAP. And indeed he has been doing all he could to make life difficult for us, to make our governing of Singapore more difficult. 

    The Member for Anson has been doing the same thing since 1972, and perhaps even before that. We have not complained about the unhelpful attitude of the Opposition. As Opposition, it is their duty to ask questions, to criticize and generally to make life a bit difficult for us. Is the Member for Anson saying that it is our constitutional duty to help the Opposition to grow in Singapore? First to grow, and 

    Parliamentary democracy is about free elections held regularly - a Party which contests and earns the right to govern in Singapore. It is our responsibility to govern Singapore, having been returned by the people. The Member for Anson understands that very well, that the Government's responsibility is to govern. That is why he has been suggesting that Parliament should have parliamentary committees, whereby he can also participate, because he knows that it is the responsibility of the Government to gov- 

    Why do we need to have a permit for a rally? The Member for Anson has used that to suggest that there is no freedom of speech in Singapore, that each time he wants to hold a rally, a public meeting, he must apply for a police permit. There are good reasons for this. There are mass organizations like religious and cultural organizations. Singapore is a multi-racial society. The need for a permit springs from our early history of riots and revolutions. Malaysia, too, has a similar requirement. So we are not unique in asking for a permit to hold rallies. And political Parties can hold their rallies any time provided they are held indoors or in a stadium, to avoid inconveniencing the public. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the HDB does not have to provide an office for the MPs. It is not under any obligation to provide offices for MPs. That HDB has chosen to do so to PAP MPs is because they have found the PAP MPs helpful to the HDB. The PAP MPs hold "meet-the-people" sessions regularly, They promote good neighbourliness. They help the HDB to look after the housing estates better. For that reason, the HDB has found it to their advantage to provide offices for PAP MPs. And, of course, having done so for the PAP MPs, they do not discriminate against the Opposition MPs. The Member for Anson has an office the size of a 4-room flat and he pays 

 only $5. The Member for Potong Pasir will get his office very soon. 

    We do not believe that the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir will work for the success of Government's social policies. When I made that speech in the dialogue session with the grassroots leaders about an enlightened attitude to the Opposition, I was in fact signalling to the Opposition the kind of opposition which I would personally, or we as a Government, would like to have in Singapore - an Opposition that is constructive, that has credible men around them, that has got alternative views, programmes, which we can compete in. That is the kind of Opposition which we would like to see in Singapore. But having said that, I am not going to add that it is our duty to help them to grow, more so, if they harbour ambition to topple us. 

    The Member for Anson in his election speech at Fullerton Square talked about the golden age. Come 1988, God willing, he would be in government. I am paraphrasing him but I think that is the essence of what he said to the people. And I believe the Member for Potong Pasir harbours the same ambition that, come 1988, he would also be in a position to present enough candidates to form the Government. I believe he is going to speak to the NUS students sometime in July on the foundations of an alternative government. He must, if he wishes to succeed, not just talk about the foundations of an alternative government, but come out with ideas to 

  hoiyung: Let me give one example when you do so. Take defence. The Member for Anson comes to this House and tells us, four or five times, that he was never against defence. A mere repetition that you are not against defence does not convince people that you are not against defence. A person can swear 10 times that, "I am honest. I am honest." But unless he proves that he is an honest man, people are not going to believe him. 

    Why do I say that I have doubts about his sincerity in defending Singapore? Because only last year, before the elections, we were altercating, we were arguing publicly, about the high level of defence expenditure, about the need to purchase the Hawkeye to defend Singapore. The Member for Anson boasted that he would make that an election issue. But did he make defence an election issue? He beat a hasty retreat. We met him head-on. So he beat a hasty retreat. Why was that? Because we were occupying high ground. There were no votes there for him. I think the Member for Anson, if he has indeed changed his point of view about defence, should come out openly and say so, that "I was wrong. My concept of National Service was wrong. My concept of National Service as a community service was wrong. I am now for the present format of National Service. And I can give you the following ideas to improve." 

So there is this conflict. The threat is from within and he wants to have a regular Army to meet this threat from within, I think we deserve some clarification from the Member for Anson later on. 

    I can appreciate the disappointments of the Member for Anson. He has been building up the Workers' Party for over 12 years. He has succeeded in convincing only Anson to support him and he barely succeeded. He must not vent his frustrations on us. He must not blame us for his inability to grow. If his complaints are about community centres, classrooms, 

    The Member for Anson is against preventive detention under the Internal Security Act and the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act. If he were in charge in Singapore, would he release the criminals, the gangsters, the drug traffickers, the gang rapists, from detention? He has spoken up time and again against preventive detention. Will he do that? Will your daughters be safe returning home if these people are not detained under the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act? 

    So land will run out in about 10 years time. How do we resolve this fundamental; problem? Do we slow down the rate of construction? Do we reclaim more land? Is more land available for reclamation? Can we actually reclaim very much more land? This is a fundamental issue. And I wished, when I was listening to the Member for Potong Pasir, that he had tackled the Minister for National Development through a series of supplementary questions on this. But he did not. Again, he went back to his favourite allegation that the HDB was making huge profits from the people, that the sale price of HDB flats was above the construction cost. And he refused to recognize that the cost of a flat includes costs, other than construction costs. I think the Member for Potong Pasir should grow up and deal with the fundamentals seriously. And we invite Members of the Opposition to address 

  hoiyung: Recycling, yes. If that is a possible solution, I think the Member for Potong Pasir can suggest how we can recycle water. I think we do not just dismiss this. We will listen to all positive suggestions as to how we can resolve this problem. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I thank the Member for Anson for giving way for me to seek a point of clarification. Where have we prevented the Member for Anson, or any Opposition Parties for that matter, from coming out with their ideas? Where have we prevented this free-play of ideas? I thought I have dwelt at length on this, that we welcome the free-play of ideas and that we have plenty of opportunities for this freeplay of ideas. We are looking for their ideas. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Are you giving way, hoiyung: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir. And I am much obliged to the Member for Anson. Had the Member for Anson listened carefully to my concluding remark, he would not have any cause to complain further. At the moment, as I have explained, constituencies are not part of a separate estate which is different from the Government. They are part of the bigger responsibility of Government. But in the future it is indeed our intention to 

    Again, the conference room is not for the Workers' Party council meetings, as was reported by the Straits Times and which I had to correct. It is for the use of the council that has come into being in Anson. They are a spirited lot in Anson and I am very glad to note that the council is making plans for Anson. We wanted to use the conference room for the meetings so that there could be no suggestion that they were somehow associated with the Workers' Party. And that has been denied. Why? They are Anson residents. They want to do a job in Anson. They want to promote the welfare of Anson residents. Why are you denying them the use of the conference room? You see, Mr First Deputy Prime Minister, the motives are suspect. Why are you denying this? 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I said that there was a failure to understand what is at stake. May I try and spell out what this debate is all about? This debate is not, I repeat, about whether the Workers' Party has got effective leadership or whether the Workers' Party has done this or whether the Workers' Party has done that. May I say here that it is not for the Members on 

 the opposite benches and those behind us to judge the Workers' Party. The judgment will be made by the electorate, by the voters, and we shall be quite happy and content to leave the judgment to our electorate. We do not need the judgment of the Government or the PAP Members. So it is not that. Nor is this debate about any particular policy or policies. 

    The First Deputy Prime Minister - I thought he would at least have an appreciation of what was at stake in this debate - dwelt on the defence policies. But that is not what we are debating. There will be time for that. If you like, table another motion, and I will answer that. But what we are debating here today is: are we providing for political growth, not of a particular political Party, or not? We are not asking the Government to help the Workers' Party, Nor do I think my colleague on this side of this House is asking the Government to help the SDP. We have done without any help from the Government, and we have come this far in spite of all the obstructions and the obstacles put in our way. So we are not here appealing to you to help us, the Workers' Party. That is not the purpose of this debate. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: The Member for Anson has not answered a simple question which I asked. Can I just repeat it? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, for the record, since the Member for Anson has asked those two questions which he thought I have not answered, he could submit them in the form of Questions for Oral Answer and he will get the answers. 

    Sir, parliamentary democracy is about the free-play of ideas. I asked the Member for Anson whether we have in any way prevented him from ventilating his ideas. I have not got an answer to that. 

 Jeyaretnam, J.B.          Ho Kah Leong

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, a number of things were raised in discussions with principals and parents at the recent forums conducted by the Minister for Education. I think the Member for Potong Pasir should wait until the Minister 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you making a speech? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your questions, please? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, what is your question? If you persist in making a speech, I shall ask you to sit down. Ask your questions now. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, have you finished? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, I thought I caught your eye before the Member for Potong Pasir did when he rushed to the mike. I would like to ask the Minister on those bus routes which run parallel with the MRT. If those bus routes are taken off, is that not depriving bus commuters from using the bus and forcing 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that total operating cost for land transport will go up by 15% and 30% when the MRT trains commence operation, Phase 1, 1A as well as Phase 2. That is not true at all. I said that if - and here I want to emphasize if there is no integration of bus and train, in other words, if everything remains as it is with buses and the MRT system is 

 course, that economy of scale can be maintained. For example, if we were to privatize the PSA, JTC or Telecoms, we should allow other companies to operate and provide alternate services. And in the case of the HDB, perhaps the new Minister for National Development will be now conducive or agreeable to even privatize the HDB and allow private developers to build HDB flats. In this way, perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir, who is presently not in this House, can also consider forming a company to build HDB flats and make huge profits as he has always imagined that he could do. 

    Sir, whilst most people realize the need to look forward and plan for the future, some prefer to concentrate on the past. Some people, both inside and outside Parliament, have asked whether our family planning programme and, more specifically, our Stop at Two policy was a mistake. The Member for Potong Pasir is one such person. He prefers a laissez-faire approach. His line is that the Government should have done nothing in the mid-1960s and 1970s to restrain the population growth. "We should have let nature take its course and everything would be all right." The question is: would the laissez-faire approach have turned out right? And if it did not, what kind of problems and difficulties would Singaporeans be facing today? 

    Let us cast our minds back to the mid-1960s. Our population was then growing at the rate of about 2(r)%. At that rate, we would have 3.3 million Singaporeans today, almost 700,000 more people than what we have now. After we implemented our family planning programme, the population growth rate slowed down to about 1.9 to 2% by the late 1960s. At that rate, and without the Stop at Two policy in 1972, we would still have an extra 300,000 Singaporeans today. Can you imagine the pressures on our schools, our hospitals, our housing programmes? And could we have generated enough jobs for all the additional people? Sir, was the population policy a mistake, as Mr Chiam claims? 

 poreans would have lost their jobs. Fortunately, many of the retrenched were foreign workers who just packed up and went home. Otherwise, our unemployment rate in 1986 would not be just 6.5% but a much higher figure. If that had happened, would the additional unemployed Singaporeans be able to knock on Mr Chiam's door and be assured of a job? 

    Sir, the singles problem is a complex one. It involves many factors such as attitudes, equal educational opportunities for males and females, greater career opportunities, social norms and others. As such, we do not expect to resolve the singles problem quickly. The question is: should we even try to help those singles who wish to settle down but for various reasons do not have the opportunity to socialize with members of the opposite sex? If we follow the suggestion of the Member for Potong Pasir, the answer must be "No, let nature take its course." But would we be helping by doing nothing? 

    Sir, let me move on now to the special tax incentives for the third child. The Member for Potong Pasir felt that the incentives only benefitted the rich and was inequitable. He is again wrong. The special tax rebate is very fair as it gives back to the couple their own money and no one else's. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has described the $10,000 sterilization grant scheme as being aimed at "keeping the population down." He concluded therefore that the cash grant scheme contradicts the new population policy. He does not seem to have understood the aims of the cash grant scheme. The objective of the cash grant scheme is to help low-income families with low skills and education to break out of their poverty trap. By keeping their families small, they would be able to maximize their limited resources. Their children will then benefit greatly. The cash grant will also help these families to purchase their own homes. Hopefully, the better home environment will allow their children to have a better start in life. They can then help their parents to break out of the poverty trap, in turn. Therefore, this cash grant scheme in no way contradicts our new population policy. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I cannot let pass the extraordinary attack that the Member for Potong Pasir has made on two Government policies. I shall not touch on the population issue as this has been dealt with by the Acting Minister for Health. But I feel obliged to express amazement at his attack on the wage increase policy instituted by Government in 1979. For someone who professes to champion the workers, I find his criticism uncomprehensible. In 1979, the high wage policy was introduced with two objectives in mind. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. Mr Eric Cheong. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. Mr Dhanabalan. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have three amendments standing in your name. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I do not understand you. I have just made my ruling. 

  The Chairman: Mr Tang, you were also absent earlier on when your name was called. The ruling I have made in regard to Mr Chiam's request also applies to you. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir says that he saw persons removing debris with bare hands. What happened was that, within the first few moments after the tragedy, passers-by and other well-intentioned persons on their own went to the site to remove the debris without instructions or advice. This is understandable. But the professionals and the rescue workers who were mobilized used methods and equipment which were proper. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, can I ask the hon. Member for Anson whether it is not true to conclude that he seems to act as a spokesman for a foreign country? 

    As far as the two governments involved in this issue are concerned, ie, the Malaysian Government and the Singapore Government, the matter has been put to rest. I do not therefore understand why there are still people, like the Member for Anson, who want to continue to stir the pot and create problems for our people. 

  Dr Lau Teik Soon (Serangoon Gardens): Sir, may I ask the Minister to comment on the Member for Anson's questions. Are they not an inclination to score points against Singapore by playing up to critics of Singapore in neighbouring countries? 

  hoiyung: Sir, last year, the Member for Potong Pasir asked the same question and the Second Deputy Prime Minister (he was the Minister for Communications in charge of the MRT when it was first commenced) explained to him and this has been recorded in the Hansard, Vol 45, column 858 dated 18th March 1985. The Second Deputy Prime Minister explained that the idea of selling Marina land for the MRT was a notional suggestion. There was no decision taken to link the direct sale of Marina South land with the progress and building of the MRT. It is like saying that the building of schools will be paid for in due course by the fact that 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson should be aware that even though certain people may be unemployed, they still have their own Medisave account and they can thereby pay through their Medisave account. However, in the case of persons whose own Medisave account has already been expended, they can do one of two things. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson did not hear me carefully. I said that the responsibility for maintenance and management of the estates is similar to the management committees. But there are other areas which 

  hoiyung: I do not know what is wrong if the President were to involve himself with the functions organized by the Government for the people. He is the President of the country. And I also do not know why the Member for Anson wants to begrudge the precious little that we give to these volunteers for their magnanimity, their generosity and the time that they give to the people. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, in the first part of the question from the Member for Anson, he has repeated what is in the Order Paper. And I do not propose to waste Members' time by repeating my answer again. 

    The following amendment stood in the name of hoiyung: Mr Chiam is not here. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, Amendment No. 3. 

  The Minister for the Environment (Dr Ahmad Mattar): Mr Chairman, Sir, I would like to ask the Member for Potong Pasir what authority has he to speak on behalf of the Malays? Is he politicking? We have just been telling the Malaysians to lay off. This is a Singapore problem and I am telling the Member for Potong Pasir that this is a Malay problem. The Malay MPs will solve them. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I presume the Member for Potong Pasir believes that the Malay MPs will be out because he will become the next Prime Minister. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

  Encik Abbas Abu Amin: As soldiers, we must be prepared for any eventuality and I take very strong exception to the remarks made by the Member for Potong Pasir in that this type of debate may incite the emotional feelings of our Singaporeans. The less we say, the better. But there are approaches that we can - 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you proceed with your clarification? Where is your clarification? 

  Dr Ahmad Mattar: Long before the Member for Potong Pasir came into this House. 

  Encik Abbas Abu Amin: Yes, long before the Member for Potong Pasir came into this House. 

  hoiyung: Have you finished, Mr Chiam? 

    The Member may say that there is no threat on the horizon. What would happen if his over-the-horizon radar fails or malfunctions? Surely not an inconceivable prospect. For him, it is easy. He is a professional. He is qualified. He is mobile. If such a threat develops, he has it within him to find another perch elsewhere in the world. I am not saying he will but he has that option. For 2 1/2 million Singaporeans, less perhaps 2% off the top, there is no such option. This is our home and, as the SAF says, Singapore is our homeland. This is where we belong. Either we live, fight and die here or we go no place except into the ocean as boat people. And we can be sure under those circumstances, the Member for Potong Pasir will not be in the same boat. 

  In Malay): Sir, before we adjourned, we heard the Member for Potong Pasir giving a picture as if we, the Malay Members of Parliament, have not done anything concerning the issue of national service and Malay participation in the armed forces. Mr Chairman, he tried to mislead the people of Singapore and also be a hero in championing the Malay cause. I wish to ask him, since when he has been fighting for the future and destiny of the Malays which we have never heard before. He tries to give a picture that we Malay Members of Parliament are all cowards. 

    Mr Chairman, we Malay Members of Parliament are not a group of opportunists who want to exploit every issue for our own political ends. We have fought for the fate and destiny of the Malays long before the Member for Potong Pasir came into this Chamber. Such remarks are not only misleading but also most regrettable. 

    Sir, as we still have probably about 10-15 minutes on this item, I thought it would be a good opportunity to allow the Member for Potong Pasir to raise the questions which he wanted to raise yesterday. 

  The Chairman: As there are a few minutes left on this amendment, the Floor is now open to any Member who would like to join in the debate. But can I urge Members to be brief so as to allow some time for the Frontbench to respond? Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Order. Time is up, Mr Chiam. Mr Ng. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir wants to know whether the HDB will make public the value of individual lots. Of course, the HDB does have details of the value of individual lots. But I must take very strong 

 objection and, I think, the profession of valuers in Singapore will take very strong objection to his suggestion that the value of land is completely arbitrary. It is not arbitrary. It is not up to the HDB to peg it to any level that it wants. As I mentioned yesterday, I would suggest that the Member for Potong Pasir should try and get hold of a copy of the text, and if he cannot, I will let him have a copy of the text of what I said yesterday: the value of the land that the HDB purchases is fixed by the Chief Valuer. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, I must warn you not to embark on a speech until I have given you permission to do so. You are very fond of doing this before I give you permission. Please continue, Mr Dhanabalan. 

 price that it pays the Government. It totes what it gets by way of its sales receipts, and there is a very big deficit which is shown in the budget, and it runs into billions of dollars. If the Member for Potong Pasir does not want to understand, then of course there is no way I can make him understand. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: I do not think the Member for Potong Pasir is incapable of understanding. I think he does not want to understand. As it is said, there is none so blind as those who do not want to see. 

  hoiyung: What is the point of giving a breakdown? The point is, as I said, 98% of the flats are subsidized, in the definition which I have given and which I have stated is the only rational and logical definition. It is very easy to talk about making profits, book subsidy and be irresponsible. I would ask the Member for Potong Pasir who, I think, usually is quite rational and quite reasonable, to go back and think carefully about the method that we have adopted which is not to make the purchaser pay the full cost. We have never said that the purchaser has paid the full cost. But the market value is a guide towards which we must finally arive at. Maybe the Member for Potong Pasir thinks that there is a fairer and better way of ensuring that we do a proper allocation of our housing resources for the present generation as well as safeguard future generations' interest. If after he has studied carefully what I have said and he still wants to bring up new arguments, I am prepared to entertain them when we come to the subhead on the HDB, if there is time. 

    This brings me to this point - unfortunately the Member for Potong Pasir is not here - the Hon. Minister in his statement to the House yesterday, in fact, he was trying to explain to him today, that public housing is heavily subsidized. My point is that there appears to be a reduction of some 3.3%, ie, from the estimated expenditure to be incurred for FY 88. It will only be $1,066 million as opposed to the estimated FY 87 expenditure of $1,666 million. In fact, this FY 87 expenditure is more than the revised FY 87 figure. I am wondering, in the light of the Minister's statement to the House yesterday, whether he would like to enlighten this House as to how this sum will help to subsidize the building programme of the HDB. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the answer to his supplementary question is that the policy and the reasons for the scheme were spelt out in the press release of June 1984. It was clearly stated in that press release that the purpose was to limit families so that they could break out of the low-income large-family cycle. Therefore, it must follow that those who, after receiving the cash grant, went on to have a third child would be defaulting the conditions of the scheme. If the Member for Anson can tell me how they can have a third child without their fault, I would be glad to review the matter. 

    As to the allegations of fact which the Member for Anson has raised, my Ministry has, in fact, ascertained that this is completely untrue. The child as well as the adoptive parents and the natural parents were informed of the breaches of the law, and they willingly took the child back to Malaysia. 

  Mr Ong Teng Cheong: Sir, earlier we heard the Member for Anson trying to put words in my mouth, and when I challenged him, he said, "Never mind". But this House is not a place where you can just put words in the mouth of other Members. Therefore, I thought it is important that I should put the record straight. 

    The Member for Anson obviously has a simplistic view of what democracy is. He asked me to resign because I expressed a view which, to him, is different from the Cabinet's. I agree that Government carries a collective view. Whatever is agreed upon, it is a collective agreement and it is a policy that we all accept. But it would be naive to expect that there is 100% consensus on all the views of the Government. Just as we have Members in this House, even PAP Backbenchers, who disagree with policies of the PAP --- 

  hoiyung: --- do we ask them to resign? And we heard earlier the Member for Anson agreeing with some of the economic policies of the Minister for Finance. Do we suggest that he resign from this House as Opposition Member? 

  hoiyung: No, I am putting the record straight. I have said so, and I am putting the record straight because the Member for Anson was trying to put words in my mouth. 

  hoiyung: The Minister for Communications is more confident than I am that the taxi drivers' income will not be adversely affected. There is a slight difference of view. So I thought that is all I have to say. But later on when the Member for Anson talked about the MRT saying that we cannot sell the Marina South land to pay for the MRT system, I thought it is necessary for me just to clarify this point because I was involved at that time as the Communications Minister. It was very clear from the very outset that the Marina South land which is a very valuable piece of asset adjoining the Central Area will not be able to develop to its full potential without proper access. As you know, if you look at Marina South, Sir, it is surrounded by water on three sides. The only access to Marina South is through Telok Ayer Basin, where there is only one road going to Marina South. This being the only access to Marina South, we cannot develop that piece of land except to leave it as an open space or perhaps some recreational development, and some residential 

  hoiyung: Obviously the Member for Potong Pasir is wrong. Now, how many acres of land do we have in Marina South? It is very simple. It is a question of whether you want to sell it now, or you sell it later on at an appropriate time. As I said, without MRT going to Marina South, Marina South will not be able to develop to its full potential, to a maximum density that we envisage. And without being able to develop to its maximum density, the land value will be very low, for it fetched $20 per sq foot or $200 a sq metre. With MRT going to Marina South and if you are able to develop to a high density, or plot ratio of five or six, or whatever it is, then your land value will go up, maybe to $2,000 per sq metre or more. So that is one way of justifying the construction of the MRT and extending it to Marina South. If we do not build the MRT, then Marina South will never be able to develop. It is incapable of full development as it is. That is the question. I am saying - 

  hoiyung: I would like the Member for Potong Pasir to quote the Prime Minister's statement. Will you please quote it? What did he say? 

 which has been covered by the Member for Leng Kee and the Member for Anson, excepting that I am trying to use this occasion to see whether there is a connecting thread for the downturn in the different sectors of our economy. 

    The Member for Anson has just raised a few points in his speech. I would like to comment on them, but he is not here. He talked about our promotion of tourism. He implied that since we have driven our hawkers away from the streets and resite them in hawker centres, life along the side streets has disappeared. I was wondering whether he was blaming the Government for not being able to attract more tourists to Singapore because of the policy of resettling street hawkers. It is not practical 

    The Member for Anson also suggested that the Government should give unemployment benefits to the unemployed. This is also not practical. Just look at some countries where welfare system is practised. They are faced with great economic difficulties! 

    The Member for Anson referred to the Constitution. The Constitution says: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have already said that in the overwhelming majority of cases arrested persons are allowed to contact their friends and relatives immediately. It is in the category of cases where accomplices and conspirators would flee, evidence and weapons would be secreted away or destroyed, where the exercise of the right to consult counsel or to inform relatives is conditioned by the necessity to complete Police investigations. If the Member for Anson has information of cases which he considers that the law has been transgressed or the right has been delayed without justification, he should let us have the particulars and, of course, I will investigate it. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Members and viewers who are watching these proceedings must realize that it is manifestly unreasonable to ask the Minister to discuss details of a case of which he has not been given notice by the Member for Anson. If the Member for Anson feels strongly that this is a case which is typical in point, then he should let us have the particulars, send it to my Ministry, and I will cause an investigation to see whether this is a case where there has been an unjustifiable delay. But his question was phrased in general terms and I have given what I believe is a proper answer. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson wants an answer he should avoid interjecting rudely and in such an undignified manner. He has said that he knows of a case on which he has supplied me with very sparse particulars. If I am to give a sensible and considered reply, I would want to know all the facts - 

  hoiyung: - pertaining to that case and not just the meagre facts supplied by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I will first deal with the second part of the question posed by the Member for Anson, namely, the events which led to the suspension of trading in the Stock Exchange of Singapore on 2nd December 1985 and the reasons for the suspension. The answer to this question has been fully dealt with by me in reply to an Oral Question on the same issue submitted by the Member for Radin Mas at the Parliamentary sitting on 10th January 1986. I can supply the Member for Anson with a copy of this reply if he wishes. 

    As to the last question, I would suggest that the Member for Anson should be rather careful of what he says here, because if he has any evidence, he should bring it forth. To imply that the Government has anything to hide, I think, is highly unethical. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson is zealous for our interest, for once. Of course, representations are made. Last year we took up a case with the Malaysian government 

    Sir, the Budget this year is presented to deal with a severe recession. The Government has also announced its acceptance of the Economic Committee Report. Who are the people serving on this Economic Committee and its Sub-committees? They are, by and large, Singaporeans with a few expatriates who are working in Singapore. Is this, in the words of the Member for Anson, "placing too much reliance on foreign advice"? I do not think so. 

  hoiyung: The Finance Minister has explained that while we have little control over external factors, we do have considerable control over internal factors. The Government has acted firmly and decisively over the last year to restore our international competitiveness and confidence in Singapore's economy. The Government has placed national interest and survival above petty politics. Some of the measures announced are politically unpopular and controversial. This definitely is not the action of a government that has decided to, in the words of the Member for Anson, "let the situation get worse" or, in his own words, "Who cares?". 

    The Member for Anson has also mentioned about tax rates in Malaysia and in Singapore. Mr Speaker, Sir, can I just put to the House the figures so that everyone can see who pays more - the Malaysian earning the first $10,000 or the Singaporean earning the first $10,000? In Malaysia, the tax on the first $10,000 amounts to $925. In Singapore, it will amount to $875.25 less 15% rebate for the first $10,000, less 25% across-the-board rebate. There I rest my case. 

    The CPF: The Economic Committee has explicitly explained our position with regard to national savings. The Member for Potong Pasir is more worried that the Government has no money to repay. My concern is the long term role of the CPF and its relationship to national savings. The rate of CPF savings was gradually increased over the years. Now, to alter this becomes difficult as over the years the CPF usage has been liberalized to include withdrawal for home ownership, property investments, and investments in securities and gold. Now with the economic downturn and the urgent need to reduce the employer's CPF contribution, many are caught in a difficult position of being unable to meet their mortgage payments. It is reassuring that Government has taken steps to help all those with this problem. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also mentioned that 53% of our workers have only primary education or lower. 

    After hearing what the Opposition Members have said, I would like to give my views. First, this flexibility spirit of the Government in dealing with matters has been interpreted by them as changing the rules and orders too soon. I think this is not right and is detrimental to our economic effort. If they could interpret this as changing the rules or policies too soon, on the other hand they could also interpret it the other way if the Government does not show flexibility in its policies and measures. They would then say that the Government is too rigid in keeping to the rules and regulations too hard and not changeable or flexible in meeting changed situation. To discuss matters of state in this kind of double twisting way is unhealthy. Just now, I had been expecting them to give better ideas as to how to improve our economy quickly. But from what the Member for Anson has said, the outstanding point was that he had made it to be a political matter, by adding political elements to our economic endeavour. He said that now we are leaning more towards those who are rich and discriminating against the lower income group. This kind of talk is very harmful. At a time 

    How do we achieve these aims? Be it Ministers or Economic Committee, the message is we must first try to lower our production costs and improve our international competitiveness. I hope the Member for Anson would have come here earlier. [hoiyung: What do you do in the meantime? 

    I was going to make some disparaging remarks about the Opposition but I think I will avoid that. But I would say this. The Member for Anson has said all sorts of nasty things about the Budget but I will pick up one. He has said that it has done nothing for the unemployed, for the worker, and that the Government therefore has got no feeling, no heart. I would ask him to cast his mind back to 1979 at the time where after sustained periods of economic growth, the Government felt it had to return some of these GDP increases back to the worker through enhanced wage increases. Therefore, it embarked on a high wage policy for about two or three years, although in fact the momentum of the wage increases carried through for four or five years, leading in fact to it to be blamed now for introducing a high wage policy which was designed to give the money back to the workers. 

  hoiyung: I wish to inform hon. Members that on the 9th February, 1987 I received to hand a complaint, dated the 6th February, 1987, from the then Leader of the House, Mr S. Dhanabalan, against the Editor, Publisher and Printer of the Workers' Party publication "The Hammer", of contempt of the Committee of Privileges in an article "Committee of Privilege Hearing/Jeya denied fair hearing" which appeared on page 8 of the January/February 1987 issue of the publication. 

  hoiyung:Order. Your time is up, Mr Chiam. Encik Zulkifli. 

    I now come to the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He wants to know what is the unit cost per flat. This will certainly depend upon where the flat is, what is the cost of the land, what is the cost of construction. It varies from area to area, block to block. It depends whether 

    It is very clear from the accounts that have been presented that there is a subsidy. Whether the Member for Potong Pasir agrees with the definiton of the subsidy is beside the point. When somebody gets something below what is available on the market, that is a subsidy. It must be so. It does not mean below cost. Suppose an oil-producing country sells us oil at $8 a barrel, will we say, "Well, the oil comes almost free from the ground and therefore you are not doing us a favour"? When that same barrel can fetch $18 per barrel? That cannot be so. As long as HDB's price per flat is such that it cannot recover the market price of the land, it is a subsidy. It must be so. After all, the Government is the steward of the property of Singapore, and it cannot say, "Well, just because a particular piece of land was obtained free because it reverted to it after 99 years, therefore anything that is built on the land must have land cost attributed at zero." That certainly cannot be the case. So based on market price of land, HDB flats are subsidized to the tune of $1 billion that I referred to in the accounts for the year ending March 1986. 

    Town councils, well, I have already given my answer to the Member for Bo Wen. But I do note that the Member for Potong Pasir seems to be getting cold feet because it appears that he is afraid to take on the responsibility of managing his own area. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, can you stop interrupting? 

  Mr Dhanabalan: I think we should seriously consider acquiring the Member for Potong Pasir's house at a little above cost and say that he is only making a book loss. After all, what is a book loss? It is not a real loss and I think he should not feel too aggrieved. 

  Dr S. Vasoo: Sir, I would like to thank the Minister for giving an elaborate answer, though the Member for Potong Pasir chose not to understand him. I feel the answers are appropriate, and I beg leave to withdraw my amendment. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chairman, Sir, the point that the Member for Potong Pasir has brought up that if you want to attract birds you must plant trees with berries. Well, some birds eat berries and some birds eat worms. So you can have all kinds of trees and it can serve as an attraction for all kinds of birds. Birds do not have to just feed off the fruits in the trees that they nest in. Perhaps this is one of the problems that we have encountered in some of our housing estates that there are congregations of birds which do not actually feed on the trees. They feed elsewhere but they come and make their nests and create a nuisance of themselves to the residents in the area. 

 been planted. It is not so simple that any HDB resident can just go out to his front door step and dig a hole and say, "Here I plant my tree, and this shall be my tree. You will not move it." But if the Member for Potong Pasir is prepared to donate a tree to the Housing Board and say, "In your next tree planting programme, perhaps you want to consider planting this tree", we are prepared to consider that, if there is space available. 

    The following Question stood in the name of hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, since the Member for Potong Pasir is not here, I ask Question No. 4. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has two questions. I am prepared to answer them. Although he is not here, I do not want it to appear that he is deprived of an opportunity to ask whatever supplementary questions he might have wanted to ask. May I suggest, Sir, if you are agreeable, that we proceed with the other Questions and take up these two questions when he comes or, if he does not come, towards the end of Question time? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have specially waited for you to come in. Could you please ask Question No. 4? 

  hoiyung: I do not think it is relevant. Can you go on to your next Question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: I have ruled that it is not relevant. Mr Chiam, would you please ask the next Question? 

  hoiyung: Sir, the question ultimately is: who is in-charge of Singapore, who governs Singapore and who takes decisions with regard to security matters concerning Singapore? Whether it is a group of lawyers from Pennsylvania, from Africa or elsewhere, the question is: do we decide our future? If we act as they want, if we abolish the ISA, if we do away with preventive detention, and we are therefore helpless to deal with security problems, whether it be subversion, whether it be terrorism, racial clashes, and Singapore then goes down the drain. Can I ask the Member for Potong Pasir: does he seriously expect all these groups - human rights groups, lawyers and legislators from other countries - to come down to rescue Singapore? Does he seriously believe that? 

  hoiyung: There is another Question (Question No. 11) waiting for you to ask, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Potong Pasir is aware of any of these pests breeding in his constituency, please let us know specifically where they are and we will send the appropriate officials to take a look around. But referring to the cracks in the apron slabs, let me assure him that work to repair this crack has been 

    Sir, the need for us to perpetuate this characteristic in this country has been widely accepted and amply argued these past few months and reiterated again during the deliberations of the Committee. If it is a concession by the majority to the minorities, as some representors have stated, it further proves, Sir, the boldness, the seriousness and the commitment that this Government has to multi-racialism and to ensure that every commmunity here has a place in the sun. Then, Sir, there are those who argue that the minorities would, under the proposed system, wield undue political leverage. And while it may seem that way on first examination, it glosses over the more complex and perhaps less pessimistic position. The actual mechanics of getting a minority into a team of three would involve a bargaining process that would mute or moderate extreme political positions among the potential candidates. It has to be, and not as has been suggested by the Member for Potong Pasir that it could lead to an increased clamouring of rights and privileges by any group. This, Sir, is the politics of accommodation by both the majority and the minority, a more rational if not safer brand of politics than the politics of communalism or politics of confrontation, given the sensitivities that exist in and around our nation. 

    Let me now, Sir, come to two specific issues on the Bill. Sir, as the Committee hearings progressed and after reading its Report and after hearing the Member for Potong Pasir, it occurred to me that there is still some confusion over what is ethnicity or commonly referred to as race and what clause 6, section 27(A), subsection (7) hopes to deal with. The latter, Sir, does not seek to define ethnicity, does not seek to define who or what is a Malay. It merely specifies two necessary conditions to be fulfilled before anyone could be taken as one belonging to the Malay community. These two conditions, Sir, are that the person considers himself to be a member of that community and is accepted as such by that community. To me, it is rather facetious to suggest that a Maori who merely marries a person who leads a Malay way of life would fit the bill, for it grossly over-simplifies the issue. Even if in the remote theoretical realm this could be possible, I cannot see it happening in reality. It is not, Sir, as if one could simply become a member of the community and to be accepted by that community as such overnight and by such simple acts as marrying one from that community or merely declaring that one considers himself to be a member of that community. 

 fore, I do not agree with the Member for Potong Pasir's views that this Bill would lead to the institutionalization of racialism. He gave some countries as examples. He mentioned Cyprus. I do not accept his argument because the situation in Cyprus is not the same as what is suggesting in GRC. There, the ethnic Greeks and Turks elect MPs of their own respective races. We have a different ethnic compositions. His example is irrelevant to the contents and concept of this Bill. He also mentioned USA. Although it has a history of 200 years, at its Presidential primary of the Democratic Party held recently in New York, the three candidates had to canvass for the support of the whites, the blacks and the Jews. This shows that race is an important factor in its election. 

    Sir, having no opportunity to participate in the political arena can be very dangerous. The Member for Potong Pasir suggested, "Why not allow a free market in terms of political participation?" Free market participation in politics can generate a host of problems. There is no guarantee 

    Sir, in the final analysis, we have to ask ourselves whether the GRC Bill would ensure Singapore's social and political stability. This is a fundamental question that we will have to ask ourselves. Critics will say that the GRC Bill is directed at bringing about racial polarization. It will bring about racial politics. It is not feasible in the context of Singapore. Many of these have been alluded. I think many criticisms have been put forward, for example, the viewpoints of the Member for Potong Pasir. What is most important is to ensure that there are adequate channels for minority groups to be represented, and the GRC Bill provides for this. We cannot allow for free market to enter in the realms of the political scene. If we allow it to chance, 

  hoiyung: Sir, in response to the Member for Potong Pasir, I mean free market politics with people who are sensible, people who have a good sense of direction. I do not mean that Singaporeans are not sensible, but I mean sensible politicians who enter the political arena. This is the basic thing. If you have people who are not sensible and who enter politics to drum up racial issues, who talk about rights, who are not sensitive to the communal texture of Singapore, this will lead to a lot of disruptions. I think the Member for Potong Pasir would like to see that there will be this arena for communal politics. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I was listening to the Member for Potong Pasir when he asked us to learn from the United States. I waited with abated breath to see what we can really learn. He came up with really nothing new. But more importantly, in the next breath, he says that he fears that the GRC may open up a Pandora's box and may lead to demands for quotas, for example, for jobs in the civil service, for quotas for various types of minority races in various organizations. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you please allow Mr Heng to finish his speech? Continue, Mr Heng. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, true to form, opposed the Bill. If you refer to his Second Reading speech, which I did last night, you will find that it was exactly the 

    Far from institutionalizing racialism in our Constitution, we are trying to institutionalize multi-racialism. We are not proposing a concept whereby Malays vote for Malays, Chinese for Chinese, Indians for Indians. The Cyprus constitution which the Member for Potong Pasir cited is similar to the proposal by PKMS - a proposal which he himself has rejected, and that is, a constitution which allows voters to vote along communal lines. So this fine distinction between the Cyprus situation and ours must be understood. If you do not understand this, you may think that maybe we are making a mistake. We are entrenching racialism in our Constitution and we will end up the way of Cyprus which the Member for Potong Pasir feared. No such thing. We will not end up the way of 

    He then advised us to follow the Swiss model. The Member for Potong Pasir has got to decide whether we use the Swiss model or the American model because the two models are different. One is the so-called melting pot model. The other one accepts the differences between communities. I think his suggestion that we follow the Swiss model is correct. I have also, before this, done some in-depth research into the Swiss model. The spirit in which the Swiss organized their political affairs applies to us in Singapore. Since we last discussed the GRC proposal in this House to provide for election of MPs on a team basis, the more we discuss the more convinced I am that we are on the right track. 

    Why has payroll gone up? Payroll has gone up because productivity has gone up, because workers are producing more, because it is more worthwhile for employers to employ workers. If it were not, workers would be unemployed. And despite everything which the Member for Anson and others say, there are no workers unemployed in significant numbers. 

    I am sure, as my learned friend, the Member for Anson, has said, this matter has been brought before the Cabinet and the Cabinet must have viewed it in the presence of the Second Deputy Prime Minister. And if the Second Deputy Prime Minister was present, or at least he could have read the Minutes of Proceedings in the Cabinet, he would have known that the Ministry of Communications had looked at the matter closely and carefully and for a long time. And if that is the case, why does he come out and say, "Well, this thing has been introduced suddenly. This is a sudden hike." It is most unbelievable. If this Government is going to be credible, I hope they would not give out such conflicting reports. 

    Yes, supporters of the Member for Potong Pasir have written to the press and have supported his position on growing vegetables and rearing chickens. Yes, we have in a sense made fun of his proposal. But what is the reality? The reality is, we do not have the land. We would like to rear chickens. I like to rear chickens. I am growing vegetables in my garden for the information of the Member for Potong Pasir, but I do it as a hobby. We cannot be self-sufficient if we try to grow our own food. It is just impossible. Let us have a public debate. Let us have the facts and figures. Let us not beguile the public with simple statements that look good. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was commenting on the Central Provident Fund when we adjourned for lunch. The Member for Potong Pasir asked whether the CPF would be able to repay its contributors when the time comes for withdrawal. I have here the Monthly Digest of Statistics, February 1985, and on page 98, Table 11.20, the data given is as follows: in 1984, the CPF collected $5.4 billion but the amount withdrawn was only $3.5 billion. Of this $3.5 billion withdrawn, only $817 million represented withdrawal at the retirement age. In other words, only 30% of the total amount collected for the year was withdrawn by people upon retirement. In other words, on the basis of the current figures, every year the CPF takes in more money than the amount withdrawn by people upon retirement. The total amount due to contributors is $22.7 billion. It might interest the Member for Potong Pasir to know that our external reserves for this year happen to be exactly that figure, $22.7 billion. I believe that is an underestimate because our gold stocks, as I understand, have been valued at cost, and so the actual figure may be higher. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also mentioned that because of rising Government expenditure, Government has had to tax more and more each year. I just looked up the figures in the Yearbook of Statistics, page 204, for the last five years. I find that the percentage of increase in Government revenue from year to year has been dropping: 

  The Acting Minister for Labour (Mr Lee Yock Suan): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I be allowed to respond to some points made by the Member for Potong Pasir regarding CPF as I am the Minister in charge. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, although the Member for Potong Pasir claims to be a responsible Opposition Member, he has made unfounded statements both during the elections and in this House, which confuse and mislead the public. One begins to doubt his sincerity. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has further raised the point this morning that CPF contributions should be reduced from 50% to 40%. This is something which is very popular on the surface. But you must realize that CPF is workers' pay. Lower CPF means lower pay for the workers. Is that what the Member wants? 

  The Second Deputy Prime Minister (Mr Ong Teng Cheong): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir was not here yesterday when I explained my stand, in as far as the taxi fares and the diesel tax and measures taken by the Ministry of Communications are concerned. So I thought it is necessary that I should explain the point. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir had twisted my words, in the same way as the Member for Anson has done yesterday. But I know the Member for Potong Pasir is new in this House, and he is young, so we will forgive him. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir repeated the claim that there is a contradiction or differences of view between myself and the Cabinet. We know that that is not true and is incorrect. It is true that the subject has been thoroughly discussed in Cabinet and I agreed wholeheartedly with the decision of the Cabinet that (1) measures will have to be taken to solve the taxi shortage problem, and (2) to increase taxi fares in order to increase the income of taxi drivers, as has been ciamoured by the taxi drivers themselves for some years. The measures finally adopted by the Government will obviously have an impact on taxi drivers. 

    The Government may wish to introduce schemes to encourage these workers to take up part-time skill training. It would be better for them to attend some upgrading courses so that they can acquire marketable skills and seek alternative employment when they are phased out of their present jobs. The solution to the problems of retrenched workers is not, as the Member for Anson suggested, to put them on the dole. This is most humiliating. The solution, Sir, is to help them find gainful employment. This is where the Government can help. 

    Now, several Members, I think the Member for Leng Kee first, then the Member for Rochore, Member for Anson, Member for Potong Pasir among others, have painted a gloomy picture of the economic and business situation in Singapore today. The implication, Sir, is that our economy is in serious trouble, indeed on the verge of collapse. And Government for some strange unknown reason has chosen to turn a blind eye to the plight of our businessmen and is doing nothing to help them. Is this true? Consider the facts. 

    The Member for Anson has asked if the Government has any scheme to devise a plan for unemployment benefits to help those workers who are retrenched or who are thrown out of employment. Sir, the Member will never learn. Look at those countries which have generous unemployment benefits - Holland, England, Australia. Are their economies doing well? Are their workers employed? Does he want Singapore to follow these countries? Sir, in England or in Holland, workers can afford to go on holidays because of their unemployment benefits. On some occasions, a worker cannot afford to work because what he gets from unemployment benefits is more than what he will receive if he gets a job. Where then is the incentive to work? Under such a system, Sir, the most sensible course of action for you and I would be to draw our unemployment benefits and have a good time. It is stupid to work. And that is why the governments of these countries are crippled by enormous social welfare spending, enormous deficits, high taxes and a fragmentation of the fabric of their societies. I think, Sir, our system in Singapore is better - free enterprise, high growth, good wages for good work, no wages for no work. Then you will have full employment and a prosperous society. 

    I come now to the comments from the Opposition Members. The Member for Anson asked why the Government is so stingy. He says that even when we give a concession, we only give it half-way. On the suspension of the tax on telephone services and on trunk call charges to West Malaysia, he asked why this concession could not be extended to charges on trunk calls to other countries. Sir, the answer is really very, very simple. I cannot suspend the tax on trunk call charges to other countries other than West Malaysia because there is no such tax! 

    Now, Sir, to a few points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. Most of the points which he has raised have already been touched on, and I do not think that there is need for me to spend much time on his speech. I will just mention one or two points. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir mentions, quite correctly, that income tax collections for fiscal year 1985 are likely to be higher this year than in fiscal year 1984 because of poorer business conditions. That in order to maintain Government revenue of $10.6 billion for 1985, about the same level as 1984, he says that Government is forced to resort to tax increases in order to meet the loss in revenue which arises from the tax concessions which I have just announced. Sir, the Member does not read his Budget Statement carefully. If he does, then he will note that the very first line of Section III of my Budget Statement states, and I quote: 

 tax concessions, one of them being the tax deductibility of certain educational expenses for individuals. This will depend on how many individuals take advantage of this concession and the amount which they claim. All I can say at the present time is that I do not expect the revenue loss from this concession to bankrupt the Treasury. Therefore, I would advise the Member for Potong Pasir that the Budget Statement should be read very carefully. A word here and there can mean a difference of several million dollars. 

    On a more serious note, Sir, the Member has brought out the issue of the Central Provident Fund and whether Government has the necessary revenue to pay to members when they go to withdraw their money. The Acting Minister for Labour and the Member for Whampoa have already spoken on this and I do not want to repeat the same arguments. I would just like to assure the Member for Potong Pasir that we live within our means. And that Government revenue is more than sufficient to meet estimated Government expenditure with a healthy balance left over to help finance our development expenditure. 

  Vasoo, S.                   Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the number is very small. Offhand, I do not have the exact number with me. If the Member for Anson submits a written question, the answer will be given to him. 

  hoiyung: I understand the implication of what the Member for Anson says. This is his common practice. If he has any implication, I suggest he says it out loud. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we have absolutely nothing to hide. I can assure the Member for Anson that, in fact the returns on our assets are more than adequate and up to international standards. I am merely refusing to say anything because I want him to come out and say exactly what he means. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, first, let me ask the Member for Anson whether he thinks it was wrong that there should be Ministers in charge of Ministries. 

  hoiyung: Is the Member for Anson aware that an acting Minister does not get the Minister's pay? He gets the pay of his substantive job. 

  The Prime Minister: Now without time constraints, Mr Speaker, Sir. If the Member for Anson were a powerful legal luminary, I would quiver at the charge that we have been acting unconstitutionally when we appointed Political Secretaries. I read about it last year and I thought my colleague, the Second Minister for Law, was so gentle. I do not have a gentle touch for hustlers. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, no one in this House, indeed no one at the Bar, has more experience of appeals on points of law, personally, than the Member for Anson. It is unprecedented. He has gone up to the Privy Council twice on such important matters of law, once in a civil action against me, another against the Crown in a criminal action. 

    The Member for Anson wants to know whether the Second Deputy Prime Minister is paid by the NTUC. He cannot be that ignorant of the law. I did not believe he was. I now believe he is, or he would not have asked that question. He is the Second Deputy Prime Minister and holding an office of profit. Therefore, he cannot receive - 

  hoiyung: Yes, please, as he has done to the Court of Criminal Appeal, to the Privy Council, to the Court of Appeal. There is a simple test, not what the Member for Farrer Park as he then was, Mr A. P. Rajah said obiter, in passing, making political points in this House. But what he would, sitting in judgment in the High Court considering the law and the submissions of learned counsel before him, have to rule. I am guided in this, not just by abstract principles with which all lawyers should be familiar, but also by the Attorney-General and his Chambers whose duty it is to see that this Government acts in accordance with the law. So what the Member for Anson is now saying is the Attorney-General and all his Legal Officers do not know their job. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not worried why it was dismissed. All I know was we passed in this House an amendment which says that any political party that issues writs will be held, not only as a party responsible for those writs because the party can be made bankrupt, as he has made his Party bankrupt, but that the central committee members of that party who are not bankrupt can then be attached for costs. And if he had conviction, as the Secretary-General of the Workers' Party, he was doing right for his party and not making it further into debt, he would have carried on and staked his personal bank account against the writ. But he did not. Why did he not? 

  hoiyung: So a Party with $14.90 in the bank issues a writ, and if it loses it has only got $14.90 to lose. But when it was asked to back its writ with a cost of what it would be to the other side, the Member for Anson - 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, I took advantage of the break for lunch to inquire of the Public Service Commission whether they were instrumental, as the Member for Anson had insinuated, in the transfer of the District Court Judge. The Chairman of the Public Service Commission has told me that such internal movements of officers in the Legal Service, transferred from one branch to another is undertaken at the initiative of the Chief Justice and the Attorney-General. He had no part in the transfer. I have sent a message to the Chief Justice's Chambers and I hope in the course of this afternoon to receive his account of what took place. 

    The point of order is this. A serious scandalous allegation has been made of interference by the Government through the members of the Public Service Commission on the Legal Service Commission. I think the Member for Anson should either justify that or render an apology. And 

  hoiyung: No, you said two. Mr Speaker, there is something fabulous, fantastic, about the Member for Anson. His memory is elastic. But we have got the magnetic tape. We have got a video tape, not just audio tape. What did he say? 

  hoiyung: It is quite evident that since the Member for Anson is calling for the minutes, the Chief Justice's note is patently untrue. What else does he want the minutes for? Be a man. Own up. 

 key institution in Singapore and the Member for Anson has refused, after evidence has been produced, to apologize. I move that this matter be sent to the Privileges Committee. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, we have no desire to pillory the Member for Anson, nor his colleague. We just expect a certain standard of honour to be maintained. If the Member refuses, then this House has a right to insist that standards of honour be maintained. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to move under the Standing Order No. 95 (7)(b) that this matter of the Member for Anson's reference to our Judiciary, which he has refused to apologize for, be referred to the Privileges Committee for immediate consideration. 

    What does he do for me? That is really my business. I allocate him work. But it so happended that at the moment there is something on. I give an illustration. Maybe it takes an hour, maybe more. He has problems, or he thinks the Government has problems, with certain unions that having given up 12% of their salaries in the 15% CPF cut - I do not want to quibble or cavil - but the Member for Anson should do his arithmetic. A 15% cut in the CPF is not a 15% cut in the salary. It is a 12% cut. His friend, the Member for Potong Pasir, is very good for mental arithmetic. He should ask him. And therefore they feel, at the moment, that there should not be a commitment in the next NWC to a wage freeze. I said he had to explain that we are not seeking a wage 

    Is Singapore that ignorant that the Minister for Finance is responsible for either misjudgment or both misjudgment and deception, and fraud exercised by a number of people to swindle stockbrokers and their bankers of a few hundred million dollars? There is something preposterous about it. But, alas, I think it is not just enough to assume that it is preposterous and therefore the explanation by the Minister for Finance is enough. There are those like the Member for Anson who would go on and purvey the vague impression, either by negligence or by connivance, that the Minister and maybe his Ministry officials have allowed this to happen. What benefit do they get out of it? I do not know. He knows. Perhaps he will tell the House. 

  hoiyung: Your 5 minutes are is up, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: We are going to lose our CPF, from 15% to 6%. Now I ask the Member for Potong Pasir, as a leader, one of 79 in this House, to suggest to me what I should move for a cut in the allowance of all MPs, and I promise to move it. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Prime Minister has asked the Member for Potong Pasir what does he suggest. 

  The Prime Minister: I put the question to the Member for Potong Pasir. He had the Floor for three minutes, I had no reply. I know the Member for Anson wants to rescue him, but I think he should be asked to rescue himself. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is very simple. The Member for Anson is a man with a loud voice and no lack of initiative. He can move anything he likes. 

  hoiyung: I was going to move for the Member for Potong Pasir because he did not have the initiative. So I offered to help him to take the initiative. He looks a little bewildered, Mr Speaker, Sir, but I can assure him, the fact that I have said he looks bewildered does not mean he should make it worse by intervening. 

    I think we ought to be fair to the Member for Potong Pasir. He is suggesting that we cut Ministers' salaries and investments will come because workers will be encouraged and would be highly productive. I am suggesting to him that our voters will think we have got a wonderful set of representatives if we all cut our allowances. So I was 

Jeyaretnam, J.B.                Goh Choon Kang

    I shall deal first with the subjects brought up by the Member for Anson. They are familiar ones. Accordingly, familiar briefs have been prepared. Let me state the arguments briefly. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: As for the casualty in Pasir Laba Camp, I am not sure which casualty the Member for Anson is referring to. I remember a discussion in this House about a year ago which the Member raised. So far as I recall, the case did not happen in Pasir Laba Camp. It happened in Khatib Camp. I understand that in that case, the Committee of Inquiry has been held and the family of the deceased soldier was present. 

 me does not deserve. One journalist even said that I was using different notes but singing the same tune as that of the Member for Potong Pasir, which I take it to be a great insult. But since they are not protected by parliamentary privilege, I reserve the right to sue for libel. It is not that I do not like the Member for Potong Pasir but I do not like his relationship with Tan Koon Swan, a crooked businessman and a Malaysian politician. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your time is up. 

    One final comment on what the Member for Potong Pasir said about classroom size. While everyone of us welcomes the reduction of class size, I could not let his comment go unchallenged when he said that, because of the 40-pupil class size, therefore teachers were deterred from doing a lot of things. Despite the 40-pupil class size, teachers have all the while not been deterred to do extra things. 

    In these remarks I think I have also covered most of the points of the Member for Potong Pasir except that he says that we have left out two things. One is that I have not mentioned that we have to teach students how to think. Sir, I will send him a copy of my speech which I made to the Harvard Club of Singapore in which he will see that this topic is adequately covered. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chairman, Sir, the main points will be taken by the Minister of State. I just want to respond to a point from the Member for Potong Pasir. I think what he is asking is: since the Goh Keng Swee Report, are there more students who are going on to university? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have been talking about independent schools since 12.20 pm and a lot of replies has been given. 

  hoiyung: There are so many points made which are not under this Amendment that it will take a little while to sort it out. But I will deal with the points made by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, many kindergartens are providing this service and they are run by the People's Action Party. Let me first tell the Member for Potong Pasir that 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson last year alleged that an officer was wrongly promoted by the SAF. 

  The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Community Development and Leader of the House (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson is alleging that national servicemen are being influenced, I think it is only proper that he gives some facts, and the basis on which his questions arise. He should say which company, which camp, who said what, and perhaps then an answer can be forthcoming. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: I just want to make one small point. We all assume that every Member in this House acts responsibly. So if a Member makes an allegation or insinuation, he must have some reason for making them. Of course, a Member can ask any questions, but they must be based on facts. And this assumes that all Members will act responsibly. It is not written in the Constitution that each Member must act responsibly. But I assume that everybody accepts this including the Member for Anson. 

    The Member for Kuo Chuan has raised the point that HDB should give more publicity to its achievements. I would like to thank the Member for his suggestion. I will ask HDB to look into it, although HDB at present has a few publications. For example, we publish an Annual Report which, unfortunately, not many people read. I suspect the Member for Potong Pasir also does not read it. In the Annual Report, in fact, HDB has listed out quite clearly the construction cost for each item. And if the Member for Potong Pasir has read it, he would know what is the construction cost of HDB flats. HDB has also published a bi-monthly Home magazine which is distributed to every resident. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think the HDB has flouted the Constitution. The Member for Anson has a habit of not listening to the answer. I said in the first sentence, "It is the objective of the Government to achieve a 100% home ownership society by 1999." If we allow the young people to rent flats, then we defeat our objective. That is the reason 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I wonder whether the Member for Anson has written to the Ministry about this case, because if he is so concerned about the case he should not wait until this House meets to raise his question on a specific case. 

  hoiyung: I wonder why the Member for Anson took such a long time to raise the case to the Ministry's attention. If the Member were to write in officially to the Ministry, giving the name of the child, we will look into that. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: The Member for Anson is, in fact, using this as a pretext for continuing a debate on a matter which was fully discussed yesterday. I think we should not prolong a debate which has been so exhaustively ventilated. 

  Mr Speaker: May I have a few words to say. I thank the Member for Anson for his anxiety about my position as the Speaker of the House. I do not need anyone to defend my position as such either in this House or outside. 

    The hon. Member for Anson might have noticed that my shoulders are broad enough to weather any storm, whether here or outside. So I consider this matter closed. 

    Without HDB flats, without CPF, many people would not be able to afford the public flats that are available, and they would have continued to live in slums. It is erroneous for the Member for Potong Pasir to say that the CPF is a financial millstone round the contributor's neck. He should remember that, without CPF, there would be no contribution from the employers, and the workers would be the poorer for it. Another thing is that, in his calculation on the interest paid over 20 years, he deliberately missed out one important fact, and that is, at the end of 20 years that property would have been taken over by the borrower. It would have appreciated probably more than two-fold. 

  hoiyung: Sir, will the Member for Anson please refrain from interrupting me as I am speaking? 

    Earlier this morning, Sir, I was challenged by the the Member for Potong Pasir. I suppose he was really hoping to go after the Prime Minister. But in the absence of the Prime Minister, he began to hit this way and that and one of the blows came my way. So I hope I am not pre-empting anything that the Minister might say but I would like to put my tuppence worth. 

    At the same time, Sir, the hon. Member for Anson stated that having to purchase a flat over 20 or 25 years is a commitment over a long period of time. Well, one is understandably concerned about this. But I would like to point out to a few facts, some of which I have laid out in the Tables that I have passed around. First of all, the HDB has a policy that says that anybody can sell back the flat to the HDB at the original price plus the cost of renovations with suitable depreciation. Sir, that at once put a downside risk to any acquisition of HDB flats. I wish, and Members in this House wish, those of us who have bought private apartments and private houses, that we could sell back our houses and flats to whoever we bought them from at the original acquisition price. Those who bought flats and houses, say, in the 1981-1982 period would be very thankful if they could do such a thing. So let us be mindful of this, that there is a guarantee by the HDB to buy back at original cost. 

  hoiyung: 1-9. It cannot be 9-0. If it is 90%, then the whole of Singapore city will be empty! Just imagine, the Member for Potong Pasir has suggested that at present 90% of office space in Singapore is empty! 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I now come to the topic of the Housing and Development Board. Many Members have raised various problems connected with the Housing Board. First of all, I would like to deal with the prices of public housing. Both Members of Opposition, ie, the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson, complained that HDB flat prices are too high. We all know that both the Opposition Members, since they entered Parliament, 

    If the Opposition Members have any scheme of providing better housing, I am quite sure there will be a queue of foreign delegates waiting to call on the Opposition to ask for their expertise. And, as far as I know, no one has yet called at the office of the Member for Anson to ask for his expertise on how to reduce housing costs. And nobody has called at the office of the Member for Potong Pasir to ask for his advice on how to reduce housing costs. But there are thousands who call on HDB every year to look at HDB housing, to admire HDB housing, and to study the expertise developed by the HDB. I think this fact speaks for itself. 

  hoiyung: I would like to come now to the issue of housing costs. I thought that this question has been settled with the Member for Potong Pasir. But Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has again brought up the housing cost question and made claim to his letter dated 27th April 1985 stating the 19 conditions before accepting my offer to build four blocks of flats in Yishun New Town. He said that these 19 conditions were very reasonable. I just want to quote my reply to the Member for Potong Pasir dated 7th May 1985. I do not want to take up too much time of the House, so I will just read a paragraph. 

    'The HDB has budgetted $3.3 billion for the public housing building programme this financial year [that was last financial year]. Your condition No. 17 requires that SDP should be given the first option to construct all future housing projects on the same terms and conditions [that is his 19 conditions] and HDB will pay the Member for Potong Pasir 20% of the purchase price even before building.' 

    You see the audacity of the Member for Potong Pasir - that the HDB housing programme should be completely entrusted to him? After knowing him in the last year, I would not trust him to build even a dog house! He does not know anything about housing. Imagine, even before building, HDB has to pay him 20% of the total housing development, that is, HDB has to pay him $660 million first 

 before he starts. On top of this, his condition No. 19 says that "in any dispute with HDB, the SDP shall have the final say and its decision shall be conclusive." In other words, the Member for Potong Pasir is saying that having taken $660 million from HDB and he decides, "I am not going to build and my decision is final. Too bad for HDB!" And yet this morning the Member for Potong Pasir was trying to persuade the House that his 19 conditions are very reasonable. 

  hoiyung: Very simply, without going into the figures, I think I would just mention that, in Potong Pasir Constituency, the HDB sold the 3-room new generation flats at $41,500 a unit, and the area of the flat is 68.8 sq metre. In other words, the selling price is $603 per sq metre for a 3-room new generation flat. The Member for Potong Pasir can check with his constituents to see whether or not that is the price and also that the floor area is 68.8 sq metre. This works out to be $603 per sq metre; a more familiar figure is $56 per sq foot. Just ask around, where can you buy a flat at a price of $56 per sq foot, anywhere near Potong Pasir,that is in Serangoon Road/in Braddel Heights area? That is very cheap, a very low price. And why is the price so low? Because it is heavily subsidized by the Government. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson is saying that HDB should build cheaper flats. I am not going to challenge him. I just want to advise him. 

  hoiyung: Okay, if the Member wants another figure, I will give him. The Member for Potong Pasir has mentioned in this House (I think not so many days ago) that the selling price of a 4-room Model A flat in Potong Pasir Estate is $78,000. He mentioned it here. Am I right? 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: That is the point. The point is that Government is providing very cheap flats for the citizens of Singapore. And if the Member for Anson claims that HDB should build the flats at a cheaper price, then the logical conclusion is that the Member knows how to build flats cheaper. I am not challenging him. I am only suggesting to him that when HDB calls for tenders to build the flats, he should put in a bid of more or less the same price as what HDB accepts. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson will then be able to make a huge profit if he is able to build the flats cheaper. 

    On the encouragement of home ownership, I think I have answered this question raised by the Member for Anson this morning. I said that HDB has reduced the downpayment to only 5%. Any prospective home owner should make an effort to save the 5%. If they have CPF, I think there should no problem. If they do not have CPF, like those people who do odd-jobs or are self-employed, I suggest that they make an effort to save the amount of downpayment. Generally, odd-job workers do get quite a good pay. I understand that on the construction site they get about $25-$30 a day. Some get even as much as $40 a day. So they should try to save, say, $150 a month. If they do that, then within a year they would have saved almost enough for this 5% downpayment. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson seems to be deaf. He does not listen to what other Members have said. Other Members have said that the HDB floor tiles are not good enough. They want to have better tiles. I have just informed the House that 8.5% of HDB flat owners throw away the doors provided by the HDB because they want better doors. The Member for Anson is not listening. He wants HDB to provide a poor standard of housing. HDB is providing low-cost high-quality housing. But the Member for Anson wants HDB to provide low-quality housing. That is not acceptable. If the Member for Anson wants low-quality housing, he can build it for himself. He should not impose his ideas on the citizens of Singapore. HDB will continue to improve the quality of public housing to make the flats better and better, irrespective of what the Member for Anson thinks. The Member for Anson's ideas will be rejected. 

    Another point is that the Member for Anson is in the habit of rumour-mongering in this House. Since the Member entered this House in 1981-82, when he wants to spread a rumour, he usually says, "I heard a rumour about this and that." Then he goes ahead and spreads the rumour. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has spread a rumour. If he has any information about HDB purchasing $4 million of curtain walls from America - that is what you have said just now, is it not? 

  hoiyung: I suggest that the Member for Anson produce the evidence and not just guess or be a rumour-monger. Then I will give him an answer. 

  hoiyung: The second point the Member for Anson has mentioned is that HDB is building a shopping centre in Toa Payoh with Italian marble all over the shopping centre. The answer of course is no. He is rumour-mongering. 

    The Member for Anson, of course, also requested to postpone or slow down the resettlement clearance. He mentioned two separate cases. 

    Therefore, as I have said just now, if and when we meet with individual cases encountering difficulty, we should just tell the people affected that they should raise their problems directly with the Resettlement Department or the Department concerned, and not do as what the Member for Anson said, "I have already asked this person not to move out and to stay put there." This is an approach without principle and reasoning, and such action without reference to any policy would, lead to anarchy if taken by some people. This is a kind of unscrupulous action. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I thought you said you had two questions to ask. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I find it difficult to understand the Member for Potong Pasir. When an article by an international newspaper undermines one of our key institutions and makes serious allegations about the Government and its integrity, I find it difficult to understand the Member when he says that it is not meddling in the politics of Singapore. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do ask your supplementary question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the article can report anybody's views. What is important, what is at issue, is that the Journal refused to publish the Singapore Government's point of view. The Member for Potong Pasir may not have read the papers. If he had, he would have remembered that three letters from three major financial institutions in Singapore, namely, the Stock Exchange of Singapore, the Association of Banks of Singapore and the Association of Merchant Bankers in Singapore, wrote to the Asian Wall Street Journal disclaiming that the article was reflecting concerns of these three organizations. The Asian Wall Street Journal chose to suppress those letters by not publishing them. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, these are two separate issues altogether. We are talking about the Government's dealing with the newspaper. And if any foreign papers wish to take up that privilege that is extended to them by the Government, these are the rules by which they have to play. If the Member for Potong Pasir wants to extend any privilege to any newspaper, he can have his own rules with the newspaper. 

  Dr Tay Eng Soon: Mr Chairman, Sir, just to refer to the point made by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, will you let the Minister of State finish? He still has the Floor. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have not asked you to stand up. Please take your seat. 

  The Chairman: Mr Goh Choon Kang is not here. Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, we have disposed of that matter. We are on to another motion and if you are not raising anything new I would ask you to take your seat. 

    Sir, I want to move now to the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. There is only one point that he raised which I want to touch on, that is, Parent-Teacher Associations. I agree with him that parents can be and should be more involved in schools. They can bring a lot of experience to help the schools. And there are many schools in Singapore that enjoy this kind of parental support. As to the setting up of Parent-Teacher Associations, this is a matter which we have never discouraged. In fact, the initiative is left with schools and, indeed, a number of 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, this morning the Member for Potong Pasir was slow in getting up to ask his supplementary questions. I see that he has got a cut on the Information Division. With your permission, I would ask if he would like to talk about the Asian Wall Street Journal and then I would reply altogether. 

  The Chairman: Are you talking on the same topic, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Sir, since the Member for Potong Pasir has no more supplementary questions to ask, I will proceed to answer the questions raised by the two Members. I thank the Chairman of 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I ask a question of the Member for Potong Pasir? 

  The Chairman: Are you giving way, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Sir, on a point of clarification. We on this side of the House undertake to support the Member for Potong Pasir in his right to have any misreporting of anything he has said or done published so that no misrepresentation of what he has said or done should be allowed to mislead his followers or neutrals. We support his right to have what he said, what he did, correctly reported. 

  The Chairman: Continue, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your time is almost up. I have allowed for interruption time. Have you finished? 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, Mr Chiam. 

    Sir, it is interesting to note that the Member for Potong Pasir is complaining about the non-publication of non letters that were not written to the newspapers. If he did not write to the newspapers, if he did not write to the SBC, how could they possibly publish his non letter? 

  hoiyung: Sir, I am happy to note that the Member for Potong Pasir has upheld the principles which the Government has established, namely, the right to reply to malicious, unfounded allegations and false reporting. The Member would like our local press to apply that same principle to whatever he writes to them. I would ask the newspapers to take note of that. The newspapers would have to decide whether of all the many letters that they receive from a large number of individuals wanting to get their views published in the newspapers, the newspapers will have to decide which are profound, and which are trivial. They will have to decide if they wish to classify the Member for Potong Pasir's letter in the first category and if they wish to publish it. But the Member for Potong Pasir can very easily bring his letter to this House and read it for all to hear so that we will all know what he has written to the press and what it is that the press does not wish to publish for him. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, I will be quite happy to continue this debate with the Member for Potong Pasir. It is not my business, it is not my job, it is not my responsibility, as Minister for Communications and Information --- 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir will permit me to continue. 

  hoiyung: And that includes the local as well as the foreign newspapers. Sir, I do not wish to give my point of view on letters published in the newspapers. I have no doubt at all that some of the letters published in the newspapers are frivolous. There are some that are profound, but it is not my business to tell the Member for Potong Pasir if a particular letter in the newspaper is trivial or otherwise. 

  The Prime Minister: Can I clarify what I said just now? We accord the Member for Potong Pasir the right which we claim for ourselves, the right not to have what we said or what we have done misrepresented. If the Member for Potong Pasir feels that that letter has misrepresented what he said or what he has done and he will write a reply or a rebuttal to that letter, I will support his right to have that letter given publication. 

    Sir, we are indeed fortunate to have a sensible and responsible local press corps. However, because of this very attitude of theirs, they have come under very severe criticisms. Members will remember the very sarcastic and caustic remarks made against the local press by the former Member for Anson. What was the reply of the press corps then? They considered it, and I discussed this with them, and their reaction was that they would not make any reply. Why did they choose not to reply? They felt that it was unprofessional of them to use their own columns to defend themselves. This is what I call professionalism. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir now has also joined in the criticism against the local press. 

    More seriously, the Member for Potong Pasir has not made one criticism against the Asian Wall Street Journal but he has much to complain about the local newspapers. 

  The Chairman: Dr Wang is not here. Mr Chiam. 

    Deaths of national servicemen are not treated lightly. Each time one happens, we conduct a Committee of Inquiry. This is not an internal investigation, not even a Board of Inquiry, but a Committee of Inquiry comprising people from outside Mindef. The Chairman must be from another Ministry and there is always a doctor on the Committee. They will investigate not just the immediate cause of the accident, but also the training which the serviceman was involved in and whether any remedial action is called for. All these reports go to the Armed Forces Council chaired by the Minister, and we discuss them personally. So everything possible to make training safe is done. If the Member for Potong Pasir has any further ideas on how to make training even safer, we will be happy to consider them. 

 want to engage in fishing, be it coastal or deep-sea fishing. If the Member for Potong Pasir has any specific area where he thinks that more technical assistance could be offered, he is welcome to advise the Department and to let us know what are these particular areas of concern. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: As I have said, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Primary Production Department offers the infrastructure that enables our fishing industry to operate and, where there are areas that need technical assistance, we are ready to help them. If the Member for Potong Pasir feels that there is still some special assistance required, then let him suggest. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, take your seat, please. 

    Mr Chiam, you have indicated to the Clerk that you wish to make a personal explanation concerning the Commission of Inquiry on investigations of the late Mr Teh Cheang Wan. I cannot give you leave to make such a statement. It would be highly improper for you to make such a statement in this House and I rule that it is out of order. 

  hoiyung: Order, Mr Chiam. I have already ruled. Please sit down. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, this is my second warning. Please sit down. 

    Then on 27th March 1986 at the Committee of Supply debate, hoiyungasked by the Minister and his Minister of State, Dr Lee Boon Yang, to furnish the details. Whereupon on 22nd April 1986, hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Committee of Privileges in considering the complaint of unsubstantiated allegations of wrongful arrest and detention of Mr Lim Poh Huat has made two conclusions: (1) that the former Member for Anson was guilty of abuse of privilege when he made serious charges without verifying basic facts even though he has ample opportunities to do so, and (2) that he deliberately suppressed important information already in his possession although this information would have thrown light on the whole issue. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, he is not giving way. Mr Tang, please carry on. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, I must certainly congratulate the Member for Potong Pasir for his courage which, he said, that the Member for Khe Bong does not have. But I have no doubt at all that the Member for Khe Bong has the courage of his own conviction. But I am also bemused by the Member for Potong Pasir's sense of self-importance when he said he is the only surviving Opposition Member in Singapore. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir certainly has got his section wrong. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: I am not a lawyer and I do not feel sorry for it. But let me help the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    In the British House, a Select Committee on Members' Interests (Declaration) in June 1975 identified nine classes of pecuniary interest or other benefit which were to be disclosed. Here, I would ask the Member for Potong Pasir to take note that guidelines are firmly mentioned. They are: 

    Sir, I am a member of the Committee of Privileges. This issue was discussed at the Committee of Privileges. hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Geylang Serai has adequately and aptly answered the point made by the Member for Potong Pasir regarding the interpretation of direct pecuniary interest. In fact, it is the same point that was made by the previous Committee of Privileges. But assuming that what Mr Chiam said is correct --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I ask the Member for Potong Pasir one simple question? He is a lawyer and he deals with clients and he comes to this Chamber sometime after dealing with his clients and brings up their cases here because he has failed to obtain satisfaction for them in the usual way. If he does, would he not be benefitting from this procedure so that clients in future would see him as a useful lawyer to go to because he can bring their cases all the way up to Parliament? 

  hoiyung: Order. Are you giving way, Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has a curious way of arguing his case. 

  hoiyung: I do not see the analogy of a burnt car or used car with a used lawyer or a lawyer who has been used. But the same point that the Member canvassed here in this House, I believe, although I was not a member of the Committee at that time, was also the same point canvassed by the former Member for Anson. And this argument of direct pecuniary interest was already commented upon and decided upon and ruled by the Committee way back in the previous Report. And the Committee also made reference to this in this Report. But if the Member does not read this Report, there is nothing else we can do. 

    (1) that hoiyung: Before I call upon the Leader of the House to move the motion, I would like to inform hon. Members that Mr Speaker, the Chairman of the Committee of Privileges, had instructed the Clerk of Parliament to write to members of the Executive Council of the Workers' Party pointing out to them that as publisher of "The Hammer" each and every one of them is jointly and severally liable for the article headlined "Jeya denied fair hearing" which appeared in the January/February 1987 issue of "The Hammer". 

Members - Letters from Workers' Party Executive Council Members (Cols. 1317 - 1326)

    (1) that Parliament impose on the Editor of "The Hammer", Mr J B Jeyaretnam, a fine of $10,000; 

    (2) that Parliament impose on the Publisher of "The Hammer", the Workers' Party Executive Council, a fine of $5,000; and 

    The article in question was written by hoiyung: I am obliged to you, Mr Deputy Speaker. Most of the speakers on these matters concerning the Committee of Privileges do not seem to go into the issues. They go on a rambling speech, talking about smearing. I wonder where does the Member for Braddell Heights get his evidence from in regard to the former Member for Anson about smearing Parliament. We are here to see whether or not he is guilty of gross distortion and of false and perverted reporting. They do not seem to go to the main issues but go off the tangent and hit at a person who is not present and is unable to defend himself. If we are here setting this kind of a standard, I think it is not going to speak very well for Singapore. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I was shown copies of these letters received from several of these members of the Executive Committee of the Workers' Party. I notice that three of them - Mr Chiang Seok Keong, Seow Yong Chew and Madam Wee Kia Eng - have tendered their apologies unreservedly. So they are on par with the printer, Mr Teo. Their status as regards this particular item that was printed in The Hammer is exactly the same as that of the printer. So if this House agrees with the Report of the Select Committee which I am dissenting (and I am sure they will), then these three members of the Council should suffer the same penalty as Mr Teo, just a reprimand, because they have no knowledge whatsoever of the contents of that article. They do not read English. Probably they did not even know it was published, and they are completely innocent. The reason why they were put in together with the other members of the Central Committee as publishers was, as it is given in the Report, that they have not tendered their apology unreservedly. They have done that now. There is a new situation, a new circumstance has arisen. Therefore, I would urge this House that they should be treated on the same standing as the printer, Mr Teo. If you treat them otherwise, I think it would be very unfair to them. There will be an injustice perpetrated because they have done exactly what Mr Teo has done - apologize unreservedly, in print. We have got it here in the House and also they are completely innocent parties. They had no knowledge 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I believe the hon. Member for Potong Pasir in his opening remarks accused me of smearing. Can he repeat the exact words? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, would you like to respond? 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the article in question read in its entirety, paying attention to the headline, is indeed a gross distortion of the proceedings of Parliament. But before I go on to say a few words to support the findings of the Committee of Privileges, can I just take a few minutes to demolish the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, although I do not enjoy doing it because --- 

  hoiyung: --- he is not a very strong debater. You cannot compare Mr Teo Sing Lim, the printer of the Hammer, with three miserable members of the Workers' Party Council for a start. The point is that the Workers' Party 

 Council is guilty of contempt and the Workers' Party Council is represented by hoiyungasked, "that hoiyung: Sir, may I be allowed to clarify what the Member for Mountbatten has said? If we get his speech and publish outside, I think a complaint will be made against him. Because he has omitted many of the things that I said. He only quoted what I said, "They are liable. There is no doubt about that." This is at page 8 of the verbatim report. But if you go down the line, I did also say things which he failed to quote and it should be a subject of complaint. He has left out many of the things which I said and he did not quote. I think he should also be the subject of a complaint by the standards that we are setting today. [Interruption] Of course, I said: 

 of parliamentary conduct are not abused. That is why we are there in the Committee of Privileges. We are not there to represent a particular party, PAP, SDP or whatever. We are there to ensure that Parliament must have the highest standard of conduct. Then we can make the parliamentary system work, then we can be proud representatives of the people. 

    Earlier on I referred to the curious arguments of Mr Chiam. I do not want to belabour the point, but I cannot avoid saying that when he tried to plead for the three so-called ignorant, illiterate and innocent members of the Executive Council of the Workers' Party, he was actually saying that the Workers' Party Executive Council comprised a group of stupid people. I hope they are not. I hope they are, like the People's Action Party Executive Council, Executive Committee, comprised people who know what they are doing. Similarly with the SDP. But it is not my job to warn these people or to tell them what they should do. When they applied for the permit to print "The Hammer" they signed the application which clearly states that they are "jointly and severally liable together with the principal applicant". That is what they have committed to do. Therefore, they cannot subsequently say, "Oh, I am sorry, I do not know all these things. I am not responsible." But at least they have the courage to say they accept the decision collectively. They accept collective responsibility. 

Members - Letters from Workers' Party Executive Council Members (Cols. 1317 - 1326)

    Sir, my third point is actually a complaint to the Minister for National Development, particularly to HDB. I have here with me a letter which the Member for Anson has sent to his residents, whereby I feel that some special services have been given to Anson which 77 other PAP Members in this House do not seem to receive. If I may just read a section of the letter. It is an undated letter - "A letter from your MP ... signed J.B. Jeyaretnam": 

  hoiyung: Sir, perhaps the Member for Anson is not very clear on the point about maintenance work. I would like to explain quite clearly how maintenance work is being done. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson is threatening me at present. I have explained quite clearly that where there is maintenance work to be carried out, even within the constituency itself, some blocks of flats will be attended to first while others will be attended to later. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, day before yesterday, the Member for Potong Pasir mentioned that his Party has published the cost of HDB flats and that the Government has never rebuffed what he said, and so on and so forth, I would like to inform the Member that the HDB was established in February 1960. 

  hoiyung: I am coming to it. The Member has said that the SDP has given information on the construction costs of the HDB flats and that Government has never rebutted his calculations. I would like to provide this information to the Member for Potong Pasir: that the HDB was established in February 1960, and it has been in existence for 25 years. Every year, the HDB publishes an annual report. In the HDB's annual report, the construction costs of the flats are published. The annual report is not secret. Anybody can buy a copy of this report. 

    Logically, if the Member for Potong Pasir's Party disagrees with the HDB's construction costs, he should write to the HDB and say, "Your calculations are incorrect. The cost figures are incorrect." And not the other way round, to claim that the HDB has not read his calculations of costs of HDB flats, and so on and so forth. That is incorrect. In fact, the Ministry of National Development has never received anything from his Party to say that the annual report published by HDB is incorrect. The Member has referred to his calculations on the cost of HDB flats and said that we are keeping quiet and have not responded. I do not think that statement is quite correct. In fact, on 28th of August last year during the National Day dinner at Geylang West, I said that the HDB selling prices for 3- and 4-room flats in the new town were pegged below the construction cost. The HDB is losing money. It is heavily subsidizing the sale of 3- and 4-room flats. I also said in that speech that some Opposition Parties did not understand the calculations. They either do not understand the costing of the flats or purposely ignore it and adopt the 

  hoiyung: In the last elections, at the SDP rally at the car park between Block 438 and Block 444 Ang Mo Kio Avenue 10 on 15th December 1984, the Member said that the HDB made a profit of $22,000 for every unit of 3-room flat and $40,000 for every unit of 4-room flat. If the HDB, as the Member said, is really making $22,000 for every unit - 

  hoiyungasked by the Member for Potong Pasir. A clarification is asked for and he goes on into electioneering propaganda. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: In fact, the question has been raised by the Member for Potong Pasir day before yesterday. This is exactly the answer on the same point. He has said that the HDB or the Ministry of National Development has not responded to his calculations. I am now responding to the hon. Member for Potong Pasir's calculations. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said at his rally that for every unit of 3-room HDB flat, the HDB is making $22,000. The HDB sells a 3-room new generation flat in a new town at $30,400 per unit. And if the HDB, as he claims, really makes $22,000 per unit, then the construction cost and all other costs, including land, must be only $8,400. Does the Member seriously believe that he can build a 3-room flat for $8,400? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the solution to this argument is very simple. I hope the Member for Potong Pasir will accept my offer and build those four blocks of flats. Then at the end of it, we will know very simply. If he is not able to build the flats at the cost he claims that is the cost to the HDB, then quite clearly he is telling a lie. Alternatively, if he builds those flats and he is really able to make so much profit, then I think he has greater experts than the HDB in building public housing. And I think the HDB should invite his experts to teach the HDB how to build public housing, And I would suggest to the HDB that if his experts are able to save on construction cost by $22,000 for a 3-room flat and $40,000 for a 4-room flat, his experts should be paid 10% of the sale price, perhaps $20 million a year. We will not grudge. No Singaporean will grudge if you are able to save $22,000 for a person who buys a 3-room flat. In other words, he buys it cheaper by $22,000. And I think the people will be very happy to pay $2,000 as a fee to that great expert of his, or several experts. I do not know how many of them. And if you are able to save $40,000 on a 4-room flat for the public, I think the people will be very happy to pay 10% more as a fee to his expert. The HDB is not making a profit and the Member says that it is making a profit of $40,000. So I hope that the Member will accept our offer and build those flats to prove whether he is telling a lie or whether really he has greater experts who are able to build flats much cheaper than the HDB. 

    On the point of maintenance of the estates, I think this information can be supplied to the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, would you at the same time speak on the Subhead that you have raised? You have an amendment on Subhead TG-01 here. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, on the question of the land, the Member for Potong Pasir has queried me: what authority do I have to give the land away? I think he has misunderstood my offer. I am not giving the land away to him. What I am saying is that the Government will provide him with the land. The Government will carry out clearance of the land but the cost of the clearance will have to be borne by him. And the Member will build four blocks of flats and, at the end of it, he will have to sell the flats back to HDB. Sir, the land always belongs to the Government. I am not giving it away to him. How can the Government give anybody any land? The Government only provides the land so that the Member can build those four blocks of 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): On a point of clarification, Sir. May I know from the Member for Anson the exact date when that remark was made, because I do not recall making that particular remark? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I just want to clarify one point. It so happens that the case mentioned by the Member for Anson happened in my constituency, ie, the Indian woman with two children married a Malaysian who was sent back. I think the Member is barking up the wrong tree. The decision came from the Commissioner of Employment, Ministry of Labour. I handled 

 this case. I met her on no less than four occasions. She was brought to me by a very eloquent Indian gentleman who spoke very good English. So I could understand the case very well. I fought the case until the very last moment when - I would say it was almost successful - the Ministry of Labour, (in fact, through the good offices of the Parliamentary Secretary) told me that she has completed all her formalities and her case would be considered favourably. I tried to look for her but she had disappeared. Obviously, she must have gone to the Member for Anson thinking that he could do better. So I stopped short there. Actually her suffering was unnecessary. I am not trying to fight for business. If she thinks that the Member for Anson can do better for her, I can only say, I sympathize with her, as I cannot help her anymore. However, there is no grudge against her. If she feels like coming back to my branch, I am still willing to help her. 

  hoiyung: Two children, yes, but she has a problem with the husband. As the Member for Bukit Batok has quite rightly pointed out, she requires a formality. That means where the husband and wife have been separated and divorced, then HDB will ask for the documents of a legal separation or a divorce. If she can produce that, then she will be qualified to apply for HDB housing. And HDB will give her the consideration of a housing benefit. If Madam Kumari goes to see the Member for Anson, then he can advise her that if she complies with this formality, HDB will consider her application. 

  hoiyung: No. I think the Member for Anson has forgotten. I have explained in this House many times that only the Member of Parliament can take up the case of his constituents. This is quite obvious. Otherwise a person will go to all the 79 MPs or 77 PAP MPs and HDB will have to make 77 replies to the 77 MPs. This will create a lot of unnecessary work. So if the Member for Anson is acting as an MP when she is not his constituent, then of course the Member does not get a reply. But if the Member is acting as her legal counsel, that is different. He will get a reply. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has alleged that the HDB has become a monster and the HDB is making a lot of rules and regulations which, to him, are unreasonable and unfeeling, and that there is a need to have a committee formed by Members of Parliament to investigate the HDB rules and regulations. Sir, I am the Minister in charge of HDB. Any of the Members here can raise a question, either oral or in writing, in this House, to ask HDB to justify any rules and any regulations. And I will have to justify it because I am the Minister in charge, and I will give Members the reasons why HDB need to have such rules and regulations. So I see that it will be a total waste of time to form a committee. Anybody who is dissatisfied with any rules of the HDB can bring it up and I will justify the rules and the regulations made by the HDB. 

 requests. I am quite happy to offer the management of the estates in the two constituencies to the two hon. Members. I hope these hon. Members, with their dynamic leadership, will turn their constituencies into a model constituency for everybody to see. Since the Member for Potong Pasir has claimed repeatedly that he is able to build flats much cheaper than HDB, I think it should not be very difficult for him to manage HDB estates much better than HDB. It should not be a problem. I hope both the Members for Anson and Potong Pasir will keep this in mind. Because the decentralization of the management of HDB estates will come about anyway, and if both Members would like this to come about early in their constituencies, I will be pleased. 

    On the point raised by the Member for Anson on MND Holdings, this has already been discussed. The Auditor-General has also made observations on this and HDB has decided to sell the HDB shares in MND to the Government. So in fact the shares have been sold. The Member is quite right in saying that the $98 million has now increased to more than $100 million. It is more than $100 million. The whole lot of money is coming back to HDB. This money will be shown in the HDB accounts. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, may I ask a point of clarification. Sir, I do not quite understand what the Member for Potong Pasir is saying. I just want to ask this. Does he mean that HDB should sell or price the flat on the basis of land that has been acquired many, many years ago at, maybe, $1 per sq ft? Or does he mean that HDB should actually price the flat at the land price today? 

 concept in economics, called opportunity cost. Would the hon. Member for Potong Pasir be able to understand this concept and explain it to this House? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, I think you have answered the question, and your 10 minutes are up. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, on the HDB accounting, either the Member for Potong Pasir does not understand or he tries to twist the accounts. I am not very sure which is which. But let me explain. In the old HDB accounting system, the HDB is receiving subsidies from the Government in several ways. One is that the Government is providing cheap land for the HDB to build public housing. For example, in Queenstown, Government gives land, which previously belonged to SIT, to HDB at no cost, zero cost, to build houses. While in other 

    The third is that Government provides cheap loans to HDB. In fact, Government has provided two types of loans to the HDB. One is for HDB to build shops, industrial facilities, rental flats, at 7.75% and on 60 years' repayment. In fact, the Member for Potong Pasir made a big fuss about it, saying that the CPF depositor only gets 6.5% while Government gives loans to HDB at 7.75%. I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir is purposely twisting, or he is ignorant. This 7.75% loan is for 60 years' repayment. If you ask any CPF depositor, "Can we use your money to lend it to the HDB, and you get it back 60 years later?" And see what is his answer. 

    The HDB is returning the land to the Government. Previously, under the old accounting system, the Government gives the land to the HDB either at no cost or at very low cost. But under this new accounting system, the land cost is properly reflected. And I am very glad that the hon. Member for Potong Pasir has now conceded that there is such a thing as land cost. The land cost will be determined by the Government Chief Valuer. Then the HDB will be able to show the actual cost of the flat: the land cost HDB pays to the Government, the construction cost, the interest cost, the overheads of HDB, the resettlement cost - all these added together to arrive at the actual cost of the flat. The actual cost of the flat, of course, is going to be much higher than the selling price of HDB flats. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if you will forgive this intervention, but I think it is essential that we do not have a slur cast over the new accounting system because it was not answered effectively. The Member for Potong Pasir will discover that the difference between campaigning and debating is that in a face-to-face encounter, no point which is untrue will be allowed to pass. That is a fundamental principle of this Government. 

    So we embarked on this Robin Hood adventure. Now, the population has learned a little bit of accountancy, book-keeping, the Member for Potong Pasir comes in with vague allegations of misdemeanour, profit-making, profiteering. So I need to remind the House what this is all about. It is to try and get a unique society set up out of extraordinary circumstances of near despair, to become a 100% property-owning democracy. Quite an achievement if we do it. I am not sure that we can make it a 100%; I think we can make it to 90%. The last 10% will be very difficult and, on some other occasion, I will explain why. But we have been playing Robin Hood and now we are accused of being the highwayman, without any charity. Really? What for? 

    How have we sold? Just given it away. That is how we have sold, in order that people can become owners. We have prevented land owners from evicting tenants, de facto. The Member for Potong Pasir practises at the Bar. He knows you cannot get rid of a tenant from rent-controlled premises. The government was advised by a U.N. team to repeal this law, allow rents to go up, and collect more property tax. I persuaded my colleagues not to change the law, that it was one method of redistributing wealth. So every tenant now squats and waits until his compensation comes. Good luck to him. 

    People are more educated. But I believe we should educate them beyond the stage of the Member for Potong Pasir. It is not the scare. We will now go through the accounts in detail in this House, whether it is CPF, whether it is Housing Board lands whether it is the cost of housing, and i think we will move into much more sophisticated pricing systems. 

    The Minister for National Development may speak broken, fractured English. But I can assure the Member for Potong Pasir that his thoughts are well connected, that he comes out with whole solutions to complex problems, He has worked with me for 26 years. We have a difficult problem to resolve - limited land, with too many people wanting more than what the land can yield. If the answer were price alone, and if we solved it the Hong Kong way or, for that matter, Bangkok, or Man- 

    I do not believe that we have solved the question of price just by putting it into six categories. I think each building block has to be priced differently because they are differently priced. We know when they are resold, whether it is in Tanjong Pagar or in Whampoa, there is a tremendous difference in price. And so I hope that the Member for Potong Pasir will help us educate both the public and, I hope, himself and us, on the intricacies of his thinking. 

    Now, may I make a clarification on the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, the concept of transfer pricing, Transfer pricing is an attempt by multi-nationals to cheat tax authorities, by so arranging the prices of the materials they buy and the output that they sell, to show no profit or to show a loss, in order to get certain concessions from the host government. So it is a criminal action. It is something designed to cheat somebody. Now, to use that concept against the Housing Board is an allegation of the grossest kind, unbefitting of an MP, 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, it is important that the impartiality and the integrity of the Judiciary, including the Subordinate Courts, is not lightly impugned and made the subject of politicking. I have gone to some length to trace all documentary and other evidence on this transfer. I now ask the Member for Anson whether he accepts that the removal of Mr Michael Khoo from the position of Senior District Judge was in the ordinary and proper course of the transfer of officers in the Legal Service and unconnected with the Prime Minister or Ministers of the Government. 

  hoiyung: On a point of order, Mr Speaker, Sir. I asked a very serious question whether the Member intends to pursue his allegation that there was something beyond what the Chief Justice has said, what the minutes of the Legal Service Commission have disclosed, and that he will produce reasons for his reservations before a Parliamentary committee. Because we are not going to have a Parliamentary committee to have a psycho-analysis of the Member for Anson. He must have hard evidence. 

  hoiyung: I do not want to mislead the Member for Anson as to the purpose of this clarification. It is not to score a debating point. It is not to establish that I can out-argue, or be bolder, or be more impetuous and vehement than the Member for Anson. I want to establish the unassailable nature and attributes of our judicial system which has been impugned by the Member for Anson, even after the Chief Justice had given me a written note, even after the minutes of the Legal Service Commission (a photostat copy) has been produced as he requested. He asked that 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, I did not propose an inquiry. I am completely satisfied that there was nothing improper, there was nothing out of the ordinary in the transfer of Mr Michael Khoo from the position of Senior District Judge. It is the Member for Anson who has insinuated that there are many things wrong. Confronted with the statement from the Chief Justice that he ordered the transfer out, supported by the minutes of the transfer in the Legal Service Commission files, he shifts his ground in two respects. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson made this proposal. I am not asking him for a legally crafted form of words. All I want is the subject matter of this Parliamentary committee of inquiry. What is the subject matter? Let us have it. 

  hoiyung: Can I assume that he will put it into a coherent form that there would be these two Members who are not Members of Parliament and seven members of Parliament, amongst whom will be the Opposition Member, the Member for Potong Pasir. He must reconcile two non-Members of Parliament with seven Members of Parliament. 

  hoiyung: I take it that the Member for Anson will accept the findings of this committee, which he will name. 

  hoiyung: Can I not ask the Member to consider something much simpler, when two opposing sides cannot reconcile their differences. I say that I accept what the Chief Justice has said and what the Legal Service Commission's Secretary has stated, and abstracted from his minutes, not what he said now, but taken out from his minutes, that there was nothing improper in the circumstances of the transfer of Mr Michael Khoo. The Member for Anson says that not only does he not accept it, he wants it investigated. He questions also the system. If after all this inquiry, we come back again and the two contending sides, contending schools of thought, are still not reconciled, there will be no finality to the matter. Is there no way to have a High Court Judge perhaps, or anybody that the Member thinks is independent, impartial, without fear or prejudice, to make such a finding whether or not there was any impropriety, and we settle it? We resolve it. I accept that verdict, unreservedly. 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, at the luncheon break I got in touch with the Chief Justice in order to acquaint him of the proceedings this morning. He was astounded that his written note to me and the file minutes of the Legal Service Commission have not been accepted without question. He asked if it could be so, and I said, repeating the Member for Anson, "that he wanted the circumstances of the transfer to be examined." The Chief Justice, reluctant though he is to lose the services of another High Court Judge, since one already has to look into the circumstances of the collapse of the hotel at Serangoon Road, has reluctantly agreed to make another Judge available. He asked me to have the matter disposed of expeditiously, and to put it to the Member for Anson whether he would not state, without the benefit of privilege, what he has stated here - that the Chief Justice's note and the minute from the Legal Service Commission is not the last word in the 

    The other half is the two persons he mentioned as possible members. I was anxious to go along with him to accept them, but it has been pointed out to me that they are connected with members in the Legal Service. One of them is the wife of the Attorney-General, the Dean of the Law Faculty, and obviously she should not be sitting on this committee. I therefore propose to have this Commission of Inquiry of one Judge to inquire into all the statements that have been made in this House which are privileged, and to find the basis upon which they have been made, including the two terms of reference which he has suggested in this Chamber. So, in fact, there will be three terms of reference - first, the basis for all the allegations made, all the statements made by the Member in this Chamber concerning the Judiciary and the administration of the law, and to look specifically into the two items he has made. I am glad that he has accepted (unless I am wrong, the records will put me right) that he does not impugn that the High Court Judge is free from any executive pressure. This is not a matter a government takes lightly. It consumes a great deal of resources. I am loathe to have to tax the Judiciary on what are really unfounded charges of interference with the due process of law. But if we do not nail the lie, there will be no end to it. There will be someone appointed to conduct it and the Member for Anson will be one of the prime suppliers of evidence to this High Court Judge. 

    Another topic which was brought up by some Members, in particular by the Member for Changkat, is that of creativity. I think this topic deals not just with creativity per se but with the quality of education. What we are talking about is quality in education. How do we improve it? What steps can we take? In an indirect way, the Member for Potong Pasir was also referring to the quality of education. But, Sir, as I listened to the two Members speaking on this topic, I could not help contrasting the different approaches and coming to the conclusion that the Member for Changkat had very concrete suggestions to make which we would take note of. But rather disappointingly, the Member for Potong Pasir was using a lot of generalities and I could not find any concrete suggestions in what he had to say. I think there is one thing I must say to him, ie, that in matters of educational policy, it is not sufficient to make sweeping statements, to use words like "liberal democratic education" and just to stop there. Because these are just ideas. These are just words. What is more important is the substance of education, what goes into it, what concrete steps can be taken. So I am afraid the Member will have to try harder in future debates if he wants the Ministry to pay attention to the points he has to make. 

 for the 'N' level, ie, four years at least. VITB is looking into the feasibility of a programme similar to BEST based on modules which can be completed in 2-2r years to prepare a person for the 'N' level examination. There is also the modular skills training scheme, a very flexible scheme which opens the door to many different types of skills courses on a modular basis. It can be used by employers as well as by workers who need only one or two modules to upgrade themselves. It is a completely flexible scheme. And this scheme, I am glad to say, now has the support of the Skills Development Fund. So there are now no financial obstacles for employers to offer this for their workers. I think, Sir, I will stop here. As the Member for Anson is not here, I shall not reply to his points. 

  hoiyung: Sir, as there are barely five minutes more, I think it is fair to let my Parliamentary Secretary use up the time. The Member for Potong Pasir has had more than his ample share of time in this Debate. 

  Dr Wang Kai Yuen (Bukit Timah): Sir, thank you for the opportunity. Everybody watches TV; as such, SBC plays a very important and effective role in forging a national identity. Here I echo the sentiment of the Member for Changi that the programme "Today in Parliament" has educated a large segment of our population regarding the nature and working of Parliament. The recent GRC Select Committee proceedings had also attracted the attention of a large segment of our citizens. In presenting this programme, I have found the editorial staff to be fair and unbiased, perhaps a bit more than fair. For instance, the time allocated to the sole Opposition Member, Member for Potong Pasir, is by far greater than the ratio he deserved, if one goes strictly by the proportion of the number of Members in the House. My only complaint is that the times allocated to the Backbenchers sometimes do not do justice to them. 

    I now come to the Member for Potong Pasir. He asked if it is possible to have commercial broadcasting. Sir, the Government has no objections in principle to having a channel by a commercial broadcaster. The Member is not aware but I have made such an announcement some three years back. Any commercial company that wishes to put up a commercial station in Singapore is free to approach the Government. Indeed some years back a broadcasting station overseas did make enquiries. We provided them with the information and we have not heard from them since. I assume that they have done their calculations and they have discovered that it is not very practical to have something like this in Singapore. 

    Sir, the Member said that a commercial station can only bring about good. I do not know on what authority the Member speaks but I have here a copy of an article from the London Times, Wednesday, 24th February, 1988, where two people with experience in television and broadcasting have got views totally different from that of the Member for Potong Pasir. I quote, first of all, Mr Marmaduke Hussey, the Chairman of the British Broadcasting Corporation. 

    Finally the Member talked about coverage of SBC of Ministers and other officials. This is a very common practice in all countries. The Member may not like it but Ministers and officials are the policy makers of the country. They are the people who decide on the changes that the country will make. I regret to say this, but the Member for Potong Pasir has got no say whatsoever in deciding on the policies of government. He can propose alternatives and his alternatives will be looked into very carefully. So far, none of his proposals has made any sense. Look at the United States. Television will show Mr Reagan and his Cabinet officials. There are hundreds of Congressmen, yet you hardly see them at all on television; and I think the reason is obvious. The weightage is correct. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I mentioned a moment ago that I would be happy to entertain any request, any enquiries, from any commercial company. If the Member for Potong Pasir wishes to put in an application, it will also be entertained. 

    Sir, I also mentioned a moment ago that the cost of operating a television service in Singapore is extremely high, $120 million. For any commercial station wanting to operate in Singapore, they would have to be talking, at the very least, $40-50 million, if not more. And to cater for four languages, to cater for the various needs of the people, including the Member for Potong Pasir who hopes to be seen more often on the commercial channel. Sir, I do not think it is a practical suggestion. 

  hoiyung: But unfortunately that is not shown by the figures. That comes forth only from the mouth of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, for English news, we are seeing a growing increase of viewership, typically averaging up to about 350,000 viewers for 1987. In the case of Chinese news programme, we are seeing a viewership in the region of 750,000. That does not include the Member for Potong Pasir of course. 

    Now, I come to the suggestions from the Member for Potong Pasir. In 10 minutes he has covered such a wide field that I do not know whether to agree or disagree with him. On the part about statistics which he has taken, saying that the percentage of graduates in our workforce is not as high as those in the developed countries which I believe is taken from the Economic Committee's Report, I would simply just quote what my Permanent Secretary has written to the press on this subject. I do not think it is necessary to give any new reasons because they are all here. The letter to the press states that: 

    'The Member for Potong Pasir has suggested, quoting Dr Winsemius, [which he has done today again] that we should have a second university in order to provide more places. Sir, I would like to inform him that we do have a second university, and that is, the Nanyang Technological Institute [whose expansion I have outlined today]. At present, it is affiliated to the NUS but in due course, we hope to develop it into a technical university, which is what Singapore will need in future years.' 

  hoiyung: For reasons unknown to us, because jobs in Singapore are easily available. Anybody who is willing to work is able to earn an income sufficient to pay the rent. These figures, in fact, figures do not lie, speak for themselves. HDB has 130,000 rental flats and, for five years, only eight families were in rental arrears and were unable to pay and had to be evicted by HDB. Eight families in five years - Mr Speaker, Sir, I think, the Member for Anson is always imagining that Singapore has a lot of poor people. Just a few days ago he mentioned that three years ago he told the foreign reporters that there were thousands of Singaporeans starving. 

    In the whole of Singapore, with a population of 21/2 million, HDB had evicted eight families in five years, ie, 1.6 families per year. And the Member for Anson thinks that this is a very serious crime, thinking that an enormous number of people have been evicted. I think Singapore is doing very well since only eight families were unable to pay their rents and had to be evicted. It is a very small number. 

    I come now to the point raised by the Member for Anson regarding the Social Development Unit and his query as to whether foreign graduates have been invited to take pan in the activities of the SDU. Sir, when you are in love and you want to marry, do you ask for citizenship? The aim of the SDU is to encourage and inform our single, unmarried graduate women that marriage should form part of their lives. I think that here in Singapore we have an excellent system. We welcome people who are talented to come, work and live here, and contribute to the well-being of all Singaporeans through their work. And if through the SDU some of these foreign graduates are attracted to sink more roots in Singapore, through marriage to our local women, then I see no reason why we should discourage this. Indeed the Member for Whampoa has suggested, if I remember correctly, that we should import single males from abroad in order to provide enough opportunities for our females. I have conveyed this suggestion to the SDU, and I have not yet received an answer. 

    The Member for Anson has also asked whether I would give an audited account of the expenses spent by SDU on the participants who go on cruises. Sir, there is no need to give an audited account because the SDU has spent nothing on these cruises. They are all paid for by the participants themselves. 

  Dr Aline K. Wong: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I be allowed to speak for five minutes, even if I did not submit an amendment. I hope the Minister will forgive me for bringing his attention back to the SDU. I did not want to speak right after the Member for Anson, because the PAP Backbenchers might then be accused of jumping onto the Opposition's bandwagon, whereas we are capable of independent thinking. 

    Regarding the cost, Sir, I am well aware of all the costs which are incurred by the SDU and those who take part in the SDU activities. It is not that the Ministry of Finance is trying to under-estimate these costs, but the figure which I have given was the figure that was asked for by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Sir, can I just clarify to the Member for Potong Pasir that the amount of $294,000, if the Member for Anson will remember, was an amount that had already been spent rather than an amount that was provided. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir would like to talk about the priority scheme for graduate mothers, I suggest that he raises this in the debate on the estimates of the Ministry of Education next week. 

    Sir, with regard to the activities of the SDU, I have already mentioned in my reply to the Member for Anson that, thus far, the activities of the SDU have been limited to graduates because that is where the problem is. But later on, if there is a need, then the SDU will extend its ambit to include other categories of personnel, including the non-graduates. Marriage should not be the prerogative of graduates because I think it is not a harmful activity for people of all categories. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, just as the allegation from the Member for Anson that our tax system is discriminatory is an annual feature of our Budget, the comment from the Member for Punggol regarding our pensioners is also a regular feature, and in my view a very much more deserving feature of our annual Budget debates. 

    Sir, I am aware of the contributions made by pensioners, civil servants who have retired, to our country, and I would like to assure the Members that we have not forgotten them. But, Sir, I would like first to clarify that the Singapore Allowance is payable to pensioners, whether they have retired before or after the consolidation and the general salaries revision. However, the allowance is payable only if the pensioner is residing in Singapore and his gross pension does not exceed $850 per month. Pension in itself, Sir, is not subject to periodic reviews, and I would not agree with the Member for Anson that we should link this to inflation or perhaps to some other index. However, Sir, the Singapore Allowance is reviewed as and when there is an abnormally high rate of inflation. The present quantum of the allowance was fixed in April 1982. Since then the inflation rate has not been significantly high as to warrant a revision of the Singapore Allowance. 

  The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Community Development (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Speaker, Sir, can you please give me a few minutes, because the Member for Anson, in passing, made a reference which, I think, was not just a term or phrase or a metaphor. He said that pensioners are like prisoners, put in prison and forgotten. This is an extremely serious allegation. He is implying that we in Singapore are some sort of medieval society or perhaps, like one of the Communist societies, running a gulag, which people are not aware of, that people are sent to prison without any due process of law or procedure of review, and that they are just forgotten. I do not know which society he is talking of. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson tried to slip out of what he has said. When he repeated what he was supposed to have said, he did not say what he subsequently said, when I challenged him. 

 Sir, the Member for Anson has got his pet subject about the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act and the Misuse of Drugs Act. I am aware of it. I knew what he was referring to. But is he implying that these are laws that are being exercised arbitrarily in that people are being put behind bars and forgotten? Because he has made a passing reference as though it is a statement of fact, I think he owes this House and Singapore an apology if he does not mean what he said. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was minding my own business until the Member for Anson specifically referred to me and asked me to put my colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for Community Development and Leader of the House, right. But since he has asked me to join the fray, let me say that it is clear that the person who has to be put right is the Member for Anson. 

    So when the Member for Anson, a few moments ago, referred to the provisions of the Misuse of Drugs Act and the provisions in the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act, what he has forgotten to mention is that these are provisions which provide for a particular solution of serious problems in our country, solutions which are to be found in provisions of the law which have been authorized by this Parliament and, furthermore, laws which are consistent with the provisions of this Con- 

 stitution. Let me say further, there is provided in the Constitution that if anyone alleges or seriously believes that any provisions of the law enacted by this Chamber are inconsistent with the provisions of this Constitution - the Constitution specifically provides that provisions of laws inconsistent with this Constitution are invalid - then, and the Member for Anson knows this, that person can go to the court to seek a declaration that such laws are invalid. I do not recall that the Member for Anson has ever challenged the unlawfulness of either of the laws that today he claims to be a violation of the due process of law. 

  hoiyung: - charitable and I accept the Member for Anson's interpretation or objection to the two laws that he referred to, the Criminal Law (Temporary Provisions) Act and the Misuse of Drugs Act, the fact still remains, Sir, that he said that people are being put away behind bars and forgotten, which means that there is no proper system of review of such prisoners' detention. If that is so, the Member should state so, because it is not the truth and it has been explained to him what the procedures are, I think he should withdraw his remarks. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not accept the word of thanks from the Member for Anson because it is obvious that in trying to thank me he deflected from the main theme of my speech. I tried to appeal to the Minister for Finance about the plight of those pensioners, but he very cleverly made good use of the time and your indulgence, Sir, by going on to something 

  hoiyung: They know your views but you are making political capital out of their views. I am only more interested in their well-being, the dollars and cents. [Applause]. I am not interested in playing to the gallery to get the applause. I am not. I know what I am doing. The Member for Potong Pasir also tries to join in. Come and try over my dead body! 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: Thank you, Sir. Mr Speaker, Sir, this subject of Ministers' salaries and that of political appointment holders has been much discussed in this House and outside this House. During the last General Election, the hon. Member for Potong Pasir said in Fullerton Square: 

    (1) Comparison of salaries with the Civil Service Permanent Secretary Grade. As you can see from Table 1, the Minister earns a gross salary of $21,600 per month and not that of $18,000, as stated by the hon. Member for Potong Pasir. The Permanent Secretary (Staff Grade 1) earns $20,600. Thus the Minister for Finance is today earning $1,000 more than his Permanent Secretary in Staff Grade 1. Should his Permanent Secretary be promoted, as speculated in the Straits Times of 16 March 1985, his salary will be more than that of the Minister. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Speaker, Sir, I would just like to comment on this paper that the Member for Anson has distributed to us. He makes certain comparisons between the Prime Minister's pay and the Ministers' pay of other countries with those of Singapore. I think he has left out the important perks in the other countries which add up to the kind of rewards that are given to the political figures. In Malaysia, there are other perks, while in Singapore, except for salaries, there is nothing else. In Australia, for example, I know for certain that a Member of Parliament, not to mention about Ministers, after a few years is given first-class travel, I think, with his wife to any part of the world to educate himself. All these should be included when you calculate how much a Minister gets. 

    Comparison with junior officers is also misleading, as mentioned by the Member for Anson. In the society, where each member has a part to play, depending on what his contributions are, we cannot put a lorry driver to run a ministry because he is not equipped to do that. It will be disastrous if we did. The principle of paying each man according to what his contribution is must be followed. If we 

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have asked the Whip to inform the Member for Queenstown that I am setting aside two hours for the discussion of Ministerial salaries in order that I would have the opportunity to clarify in his presence some points he made about workers having doubled or trebled their salaries, and MPs' salaries gone up by six times, and Ministers' salaries up by ten times. I am sorry that the Member for Potong Pasir - perhaps I should not say this, but I think I may end up relieved that the Member for Potong Pasir has decided to live up to his wish to play a constructive role. 

    I could take this debate in one of two forms. I could demolish the specious arguments of the Member for Anson and score debating points. Or I can present Members of this House with a problem we face in the 1990s and beyond. 

    I think it is fair that I should first answer the points made by the Member for Anson. He says we are over-adequately paid and that we should not equate the public service with the private sector, that it was an honour, a duty and a service, and he 

    The comparison of Ministers is not with the national servicemen. If the Member for Anson will apply his mind, he will agree that the comparison is really in pari materia with that of the reservists. When a reservist is called up for duty, he is paid a pittance, his rank pay. Then by the Enlistment Act in 1978, we had what was called, in short "make-up pay". In other words, his family would not be worse off. You take in a banking executive or a lawyer for six months to do an SCSC course, and if you pay him the rank pay of Captain, I think there will be a minor revolution. He is going to fail the course. 

    Is it wise then to follow the examples quoted by the Member for Anson? I think he has got his figures too generous. He should have completed the list. He is comparing me with the Prime Minister of Malaysia who gets only $10,000, and he does not take $1,000. He only gets $9,000 against my $29,000. That puts me in a very good position. And if you compare him with the Prime Minister of Thailand, he gets 16,000 bahts a month, or $1,300. You see a vast country, 50 million people. 

  hoiyung: Alas, I wish I could do without them. They only came with Separation in 1965. I had no guards before that. I get no joy out of having these guards. Mr Speaker, Sir, I can tell the Member for Anson quite honestly that it would be quite a relief the day I can shake off the guards, which would be quite some time because you cannot shake them off the day after office. Mr Nixon waited 10 years or 11 years before he decided to discard his. 

    What the Member for Anson did not quote was that the Malaysians pay much less to their MPs, something less than $3,000. I am sorry the Member for Queenstown is not here because I wanted to ask him about his arithmetic and his multiplication. He said: 

 the Member for Anson knows how to run a Party better than I do. I am grateful for the idea. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir may like to take my point, and perhaps take it seriously. We can demolish this quite easily, but people can work up a lot of popular feeling. Then we shift into padding. The quality of men we will get here will be different, and the way they are paid will be camouflaged, as they have been camouflaged in other budgets. We have an entertainment vote. It is not an allowance. If a Minister entertains, it is paid out of that vote. If he does not entertain, the vote is unused and goes back to the Consolidated Fund. I could follow the practice in many Commonwealth countries and change it into an entertainment allowance. I can provide 

    The Member for Potong Pasir should take this lesson to heart. There are four 

    It is like what the Member for Potong Pasir pointed out - the poor worker gets $600, but the Minister goes on a walkabout gets $600 one day; he gets 30 times more. Well, that is what the People's Republic of China, the Premier gets over his lowest paid worker. I ask the Member now to look at Table I for lawyers. At $116,000 per month, that is five times. So in one hour, or 11/2 hours, he earns $600. We could juggle around and play this as a popular gambit. I will not retreat because I have got the political capital. I can last the onslaught. But let me warn everybody: you chase your political leaders and ask them in the name of honour, service, duty, to make the sacrifices, and you are going to have a different quality of men here. They are going to be deceitful, duplicitous, hypocrites, unless we work out a system like the British or the Americans. Let me explain how they work their system. 

    You cannot repeat that, Mr Speaker, Sir. I claim no special virtue. We are the product of our times, Those who did not have it, they fell by the wayside. Fortunately, a few of us had it, and we are unlikely to be intimidated by the Member for Anson. 

    I came with this problem in 1981. The Member for Anson has done me the courtesy of looking up my speech in 1981 by reading from Hansard, and so he knows 

    As a result of his being persuaded by me to hang on, he has missed all the bountiful years. Never mind what it was. Last year, the top lawyers were earning $13 ' million. Let us take the top 10%. I think the Member for Tanglin would easily qualify. He was a Queen's Scholar, in case the younger Members do not know. Lawyers with more than 20 years' experience which include the Member for Anson, the top 10% earned over $700,000 a year. 

  hoiyung: I am sorry. The top 2%% earned $350,000 a year. But the median, that means the average, is $150,000. For lawyers of 10 to 14 years' experience like the Member for Potong Pasir, the top 10% earned in excess of $330,000 a year, and the top 25% in excess of $200,000 a year, and does anybody want to be a Judge at $16,000 a month, or the Attorney-General at $19,000? 

    Mr Speaker, I do not want it to appear that I unwittingly took up so much time that the Member for Potong Pasir or the Member for Anson was deprived of a chance to intervene. If they wish to say anything, they are at full liberty to say so. I do not wish to snuffle out any debate. 

    Let us put it bluntly in another way. The Member for Kuo Chuan was in the Civil Service. He went out into the private sector. I asked him this one question, I do not think it is offensive and people should know. I asked him, "If you had stayed on in the service instead of leaving before we made our revision, would you be better off or worse off?" He thought, he did his calculations and said, "i would still be worse off." He would be better off and he is better off because he left. He gains precious liftle from taking on this job. Do you want me to reward him the way Hewlett Packard does? It is not possible. Hewlett Packard gives him stock option. I do not know if the Member for Anson knows what it means. It means you are entitled to buy Hewlen Packard shares at this price in two, three, four, five years' time if the shares go up. If they do not go up, you do not have to pick them up, and that is how American companies reward themselves. 

  The Prime Minister: I would not wish to have it said that the Member for Potong Pasir was prevented from making his point about $600 one day for a Minister and $600 one month for a poor worker. I gave him every opportunity. The debate was set aside for two hours and extended for another half hour in order to take on two snide remarks, one from the Member for Potong Pasir and another from the Member for Queenstown. 

  The Minister of State for Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Sir, I would like first to reply to the points brought up by the Member for Ayer Rajah and the Member for Serangoon Gardens and then I would like to just touch very briefly on the points brought up by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Finally, I would like to deal with one or two points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. The Member spoke at great length and with great enthusiasm about compulsory education. I can see that he is a great admirer and believer in compulsory education. He cited countries like Japan, Britain and so on which have compulsory education by law. He obviously believes that by the passing of a law, the quality of education will improve overnight and there will be tremendous progress made, meaning that fewer people will drop out from schools and everything will be as the Australians say "hunky dory". 

    I would like to take up further the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He raised basically two issues. One is the issue elaborated by my Minister of State, ie, compulsory education. The second issue is excellence in education. As explained by my Minister of State, if excellence in education can be achieved by simply making it compulsory for students to go to our schools, then I think we would have already done it a long time ago. Today practically all children come to register for Pre-primary 1. This shows that even without compulsory education we are able to get almost all pupils to attend school. 

    I think the Member for Potong Pasir has rightly pointed out that we should not have a fixed system. We must have a flexibile system which we already have. We have a flexible system, which caters for students of different abilities. If he takes a deeper look into our system, he will be able to understand that, in fact, our system provides an opportunity for our pupils to 

    For the Normal course or Extended course students, if they fail the PSLE they can proceed to the VITB. In fact, they are automatically registered with VITB for the Basic Skills Training course for one year, followed by another year the National Trade Certificate-3 course. For those students who are from the Monolingual stream, they can go to the VITB for a one year Pre-Vocational Training course. Likewise, they can also proceed to the one-year Basic Skills Training course and maybe another year of National Trade Certificate-3 course. So, all in all, they would have at least about 8 to 11 years of education, which is more than what the Member for Potong Pasir was asking for. 

    On top of that, we have professional development courses meant for our principals and teachers. They can see the prospect of career development. They can strive harder for the benefit of our students. The Member for Potong Pasir also mentioned that the objective of our education should be one by which we can produce a well-balanced or well-rounded person. I think this is the objective we have been pursuing. 

  hoiyung: We are running out of time already, Mr Chiam. Dr Tan, do you want to withdraw your amendment? No speeches, please. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, in replying to the Member for Anson, much as I would like to avoid it, I would have to repeat some of the points which I mentioned in my statement, for the reasons were given. 

    As to the point made by the Member for Anson that this is a basic right which applies in all countries, I think he should do his homework. I would only refer him to the position in India where they also have a written Constitution. They also have a Parliament based on Westminster traditions, and I quote from a judicial decision in India which says: 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have made it clear that we are following the practice in the United Kingdom. If he now asks why we should follow the practice in the United Kingdom, perhaps he should ask his colleague, the Member for Potong Pasir who not long ago said, "Sir, if we cannot find a precedent here, we should look to the English precedent." 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson must know that the law of privileges in Parliament is not codified in the Constitution or statutory enactment, and I have mentioned to him and to the House that in the law in the United Kingdom, in the implementation of any decision of the House of Commons on contempt, there is no prior right or inherent right to counsel --- 

Tan, Augustine H.H.                Jeyaretnam, J.B.

Tan Keng Yam, Tony                 Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    The present Amendment Bill seeks to preclude those members who have committed offences from joining the Council of the Law Society. Some lawyers, including the Member for Potong Pasir, have said in the press that such high moral standards as spelt out in the Amendment Bill are not necessary. And they argued that if a member has paid his penalty and has been allowed to practise law, he should be fit to stand for election in the Council. I find that this argument is more motional rather than rational. Surely, Sir, there is a difference between the way we judge erring lawyers and the way we appraise outstanding lawyers aspiring for leadership roles. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. I think we must have some decorum in the House. The Member for Anson spoke for one hour and he was not interrupted. Why cannot he give the same courtesy to other Members of this House? 

    At the same time, a minority group of activists has also chosen to take on the Government by calling an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Law Society to pass fierce resolutions against the Government. This group comprised only 62 members. Perhaps quite a number of them are members supporting the Member for Anson or the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: These matters have already been reported and no action has been taken. That is the reason why I have mentioned it. I believe the Member for Potong Pasir is rather naive as not to have understood what I said. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, what I wish to say is, I totally disagree with the Member for Anson's views. He insinuated that there is a political motive behind this Amendment Bill. He does so by way of asking an innocuous question that the Hon. Minister should, and I quote him, "explain the real motives for this Bill and not hide behind platitudes." Sir, then he asserts that it is 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, therefore, in the course of my contribution, I shall be making reference to these. In some ways also I shall be at the same time making rebuttals on the points made by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, I believe a distinction must be made between allowing a person to practise one's profession after conviction to earn a livelihood and that of becoming a leader-man of the professional body. The Member for Potong Pasir, I think it was reported in the newspapers, had accused the Government of applying double standards as regards Mr David Marshall. I think the Member for Potong Pasir has done a great disservice to Mr Marshall who retired as an eminent member of the Bar. 

  hoiyung: Let me finish and then you can have your chance. Sir, I still think the Member for Potong Pasir has done Mr David Marshall a great disservice. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, was Mr Marshall in the Council of the Law Society? 

  Mr Speaker: All right, sit down, Mr Chiam. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. If the Member for Potong Pasir has a point in reply to the Member for Chong Boon, he can have his say later. 

    Sir, my PAP colleagues who spoke earlier have mentioned that Singapore is a society that is based upon the rule of law. That is something that we should always bear in mind. Law governs the society. The way the society is run, the way contracts are drawn up, the way rights and responsibilities are balanced in this society, and one would expect that the members of the legal profession, particularly the practitioners of law, should themselves be law abiding. And, Sir, I am somewhat surprised when the Member for Anson made the allegation that this particular amendment seeks to humiliate members of the legal profession. I would have thought, Sir, that people who have been convicted of fraud or criminal offences or else been suspended from their professional activity for some time would already have felt the humiliation. If I were a lawyer and if I were convicted of fraud or dishonesty, CBT or whatever, or some criminal act, I would not know where to hide my face. I would not want to stand for election in the Law Society as a President of the Law Society and make pretentious pronouncements on policies in Singapore and hoping that people would look to him as a potential leader. 

  hoiyung: I am glad that this Bill will screen potential candidates for the Law Society Council in future. The Member for Anson brought out some statistics on the percentage of crooks in the legal profession. I wonder how comprehensive his statistics are and I wonder whether any Members in this House are included therein. What would be of interest to this House and to members of the public is this, Sir. What is the percentage of crooks in the legal profession compared with the accountancy profession, compared with doctors and other professions? That will be an interesting statistic to get, and I think somebody should produce these statistics. I think it will be of interest to us because if it is shown up that the legal profession has the highest percentage of crooks, then we are all in trouble in Singapore. I think we ought to do something. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, he was not referring to you. 

    If I may turn to the views expressed by the Members for Potong Pasir and Anson. First, they have made the point that this whole Bill is connected with the Law Society's pronouncements on the amendment to the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act, and therefore the Member for Anson develops his theory that there is some hidden motive. I would like to make it clear that had the Law Society not come out with any statement on the Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment) Bill, this Bill would still be moved in Parliament today. Because what was never envisaged has happened. A person with a tainted record has been first elected to the Council, and the Council then has elected him as President of the Society, a high office which sets the tone and standards for the rest of the profession. Something unprecedented has happened. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I was really astounded to see the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson opposing this Bill. What is the conclusion that we must draw from their total opposition to this Bill? The Member for Anson was prepared to support the lay representation part but the Member for Potong Pasir found there was no part in it at all which he could support. Both of them oppose this Bill. What is the implication of their opposition? It must be that they condone and they approve the idea that a person, who has been convicted of an offence of fraud or dishonesty, can be elected to the leadership position in the professional organization. This must be the irresistible conclusion. Both of them are in support of that idea that such a person with such tainted record can be elected to the Council of the Law Society, leave alone the No.1 post of President. What does this show of the importance that they place on integrity? Don't they attach any importance to the element of integrity? Don't they have the slightest regard for safeguarding the interests of the public? Don't they have any priority placed on responsibility, while they talk about rights of individual advocates and solicitors? 

    The Member for Anson asked: why bring this Bill suddenly? Because this situation has never happened before. That is why. And it is not just the legal profession. If the Government did not act now to 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I would now like to say that the Member for Anson in his speech has clearly given a very false and misleading representation of the provisions of the present Act. First of all, he says that it is not true that the Law Society Council shares the disciplinary function with the Judges of the Supreme Court. He says everything lies in the hands of the Chief Justice. This is totally untrue and totally false. The Law Society must deal with complaints at the Inquiry Committee level before it goes to the Disciplinary Committee and thereafter to the Judges of the Supreme Court. If the Inquiry Committee finds that there is no cause for formal investigation and the Council agrees, then it cannot go on to the Disciplinary Committee and to the courts. 

    The Member for Anson says there is no need for the Act. The public is adequately protected. Does he really expect the public to believe that? Does he expect the public to believe that their interests are adequately protected when the Council elects as its No.1 leader a man who has been disciplined on three occasions and a man whom the courts, the Chief Justice, had to say, and I quote: 

    'Was guilty of grossly improper conduct in discharge of duties, whose conduct was wholly deplorable, as being dishonourable of him as a man and dishonourable of his profession.' And the Member for Anson expects us and the public to believe that their interests are adequately protected. 

    The Member for Anson, and to some extent the Member for Potong Pasir, made the point that this has something to do with the rights of advocates and solicitors. The Member for Anson made much ado about the fact that all members enjoy the same privileges and rights. Once he has been convicted and punished, thereafter he has a right, presumably a right to be elected President. This shows a complete lack of regard to the interests of the public and a lack of regard for responsibility. Whose rights are we talking about? When the Council elects a person with such a flaw as President, is it a question of their right to elect whosoever without intervention by us? Or is it not also a question of responsibility, having in mind the interests of the public? We are not saying that such a person should never be allowed to practise his profession, although the Member for Whampoa has made a forceful point. The issue is not whether he can continue to practise, the issue is whether such persons ought to be in a leadership position of the governing body of a profession which so many members of the public resort to and must have confidence in facing. I would like to ask the Member for 

 Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson: If there is a child molester, convicted child molester or rapist, --- 

    The Member for Anson has raised some red herrings. Apparently, the Prime Minister in 1973 had a discussion with the Law Society Council. Well, I do not know the background to it. But I have no hesitation in saying that I see no reason whatsoever why the Prime Minister of a country cannot call up the Law Society or any other professional body if he is concerned with the state of affairs. In fact, this only goes to show that the Prime Minister and the Government were concerned about this as long ago as 1973. I think his real complaint is that the Prime Minister excluded him from the consultation. Likewise, again I do not know the background, I see nothing wrong with the Prime Minister calling up a group of pilots if he, as the head of Government, feels that their action is going to bring about the downfall of an airline or going to bring about loss of confidence in Singapore. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think I have the correspondence with me here. But if what the Member for Anson says is that the Law Society received the communication only on 15th September, then I think this is not quite correct although --- 

  hoiyung: Yes. The other point, Mr Speaker, Sir, is what the Member for Anson said, and which I claimed he was misleading and I still stand by it, is that in his speech he maintained that if the Chief Justice disagrees with the findings of the Disciplinary Committee or the Inquiry Committee, the Chief Justice can step in at 

  hoiyung: I am now talking about what the Member for Anson said. If he now corrects the position to say that the applicant --- 

Yeo Toon Chia                      Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson raises this question of the plight of people who have served sentences. He has raised this question, in fact, a number of times over the years in Parliament and he has been given the answers. It shows that he is still not satisfied with the answers. He said at the beginning that he has no personal interest in what he is raising today despite the sentence that he has to serve if his appeal fails at the end of next month. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not an expert on law and I am certainly not an expert on the Constitution of Singapore. But the Member for Anson is a lawyer and I believe he should know the Constitution much better than 1. I take it that he has gone through the Constitution and must have come across the clause wherein the appointment of Political Secretaries, Ministers and other office-bearers is specifically mentioned in the Constitution. 

    What are the terms of the particular Political Secretary whom he mentioned is working in NTUC? I do not believe that there is any wrongdoing. If there is, I am sure the Auditor-General who audits our accounts properly would have pointed this out. Under the Constitution, I believe the Prime Minister has every right and authority to decide how his Political Secretary should work. If there is any abuse of public funds, as the Member for Anson seems to have alleged, we have the Public Accounts Committee. We have the Auditor-General, and he would have pointed this out to us. But he has not done so. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, when he first rose, said that he could not find any reference to the term "Political Secretary" in the Constitution. He obviously has not looked carefully. If he looks at Article 2, Clause (5), the Constitution has expressly recognized the office of Political Secretary, because it says: 

    The point that the Member for Anson made when he first rose was that he could not find any reference in the Constitution to Political Secretary, and I have pointed out that the Constitution has expressly taken recognition of the office of Political Secretary. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I admitted just now I am no expert in law, but I believe that we run a system that is fair and open and can be challenged by anyone in Parliament and outside, in the court. The appointment of Political Secretary is not a new appointment. Political Secretaries have been appointed for years and, in my layman's approach, if there has been any wrongdoing in the appointment of Political Secretaries, that should have been challenged in court long ago by the Member for Anson when he was outside this House. 

 he really feels strongly that a grave issue of the Constitution has arisen, that the Constitution has been violated, it is a legal issue which has to be remedied not by Parliament but must be remedied by reference to the courts which, under our Constitutional system, are the proper body to pronounce on the legal interpretation of the Constitution. The legal interpretation of the Constitution is not what the Member for Anson says that it is. But it is what the court pronounces them to be. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson is challenging the constitutionality or otherwise of the appointment of Political Secretaries, as my colleague, the Minister for Home Affairs, has pointed out, the proper place to challenge this is outside, in the court, for a proper legal interpretation of the Constitution. 

    We can look at the experience in other countries. There have been inquiries after inquiries. They have election commissions outside the Prime Minister's Office. But does it follow that the election results are necessarily fair? Has anyone in Singapore questioned the integrity of our system? Has anyone alleged that an MP has not been honestly and fairly returned in an election? Is the Member for Anson suggesting that he has not been honestly returned in Parliament despite the fact that the elections were held by the Department which is under the Prime Minister's Office? 

    It is the integrity of the people who run the system that determines whether the system is honest or not honest. That is a basic fact. We should not go in for form. If we go in for form, we can have a com mission as suggested by the Member for Anson. But does form guarantee us an honest system? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, in typical fashion, has tried to cast a slur on the integrity of the system. He knows so well that the fundamental pillar that holds up this place is the integrity of the men in charge of an honest system. He has raised this particular point, I believe, in last year's Budget debate, again casting a slur, casting a smear, that elections have not been honestly held. And yet the same Member, who was casting an aspersion on the election system, stood for election in the last general elections and he was returned. 

  hoiyung: And the honesty of the system. If he believes that the system was not honestly run and, in fact, if the system had not been honestly run, would he be sitting here in this House together with the Member for Potong Pasir? 

    I recall vaguely that the Member for Potong Pasir, soon after his election in the last general elections, praised the honesty of the Returning Officer. Perhaps he could confirm this. But I believe he publicly stood up and praised the Returning Officer for having run the elections fairly and honestly. I do not hear the Member for Potong Pasir complaining, casting a slur, on the election system which has served us well. 

    There was an allegation by the Member for Anson that a ballot box was lost in Telok Blangah. I do not think so. If indeed a ballot box was lost, I would be very surprised that the Member for Anson had not, 

  hoiyung: It was thrown out by the court. A decision was taken by the court. The case was thrown out. Is the Member for Anson, being a learned lawyer, challenging the decision of the court for throwing out that particular petition? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, there is no need for me to belabour the point that the Member for Anson, in typical fashion, is casting a slur on the system which has served us well and which has served him well. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, in my capacity as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, from time to time, I receive reports from our Ambassadors and Counsellors on elections held in various parts of the world. Having listened to the Member for Anson, I must say that he has paid a great tribute to our system in Singapore, unintended, but a great tribute. If, after having participated in so many elections, all that he can quote is the fixing of the stamp on the poster and the need for a speakers' list to be submitted in advance as unfair features of our election system - 

    Sir, as I have said, I have read reports and anybody who is interested in representative government can read them. If the Member for Anson reads these reports of elections conducted elsewhere under systems with independent commissions and organizations counter-checking on the 

 independent commissions, the kind of malpractices that are indulged in it will make the Member for Anson's hair stand. So it is not the type of institutions, as my colleague has pointed out. It is who runs the system. That is what determines how honest the system is. And I am very cheered by the Member for Anson's remarks here this morning, that we have an honest, effective, competent system. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, perhaps I should answer the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir first. 

    To come to the point raised by the Member for Anson about these rules: why do we need them? I was listening to the Prime Minister yesterday and he gave us his experience. He went back a little bit into history. Before the PAP came to power in 1959, how were elections held. I remember distinctly that the Prime Minister mentioned the use of - 

  hoiyung: - of gangsters by Lim Yew Hock, by M.P.D. Nair. I was surprised, Mr Speaker, Sir, that the Secretary-General of the Workers' Party, of whom Mr M.P.D. Nair is a member, did not jump up to defend one of his colleagues when the Prime Minister said in this House that gangsters were used in the old days by candidates to intimidate voters. 

  hoiyung: Taxis, and other means of transport, were illegally used by candidates in the old days before all these rules were formulated. Voters were bribed to return candidates. The point was made that a member of the Workers' Party, who stood for election recently, made use of unfair tactics, gangster tactics, in the old days, and that point was not challenged. 

  hoiyung: The point was that such tactics were used. I am trying to illustrate the point that such tactics were used in the old days. Rules were therefore formulated when the PAP came to power to ensure that we have a clean and honest election campaign, and that is what the PAP has succeeded in bringing out. I agree with my colleague, the Leader of the House, that in a way, the Member for Anson has paid a great tribute to our system - when all he could bring up in Parliament this morning were the rules and regulations pertaining to elections. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, at last the mouse has roared. There was a debate on Ministers' salaries yesterday for two hours. The Member for Potong Pasir sat down there quietly and had to be invited to make a speech. 

  hoiyung: By the Workers' Party. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: By the candidate of the PAP against the candidate of the Workers' Party. 

    But more importantly, Mr Speaker, Sir, in Parliament, we are expected to debate very earth-shaking matters on elections, such as people being intimidated, being assassinated in elections, but instead we have a heavy debate and are making heavy weather on stamps on posters. I think we have spent 10 or 20 minutes on this. So it is a tribute, whatever the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir may have said, to our system, that we are here to debate on a very minor matter, which is to ensure that elections should be run more orderly for the benefit of everyone, including the Members of the Opposition. The Member for Potong Pasir is not denying that the election system has been honestly run. He is not denying that. He has, after his election, praised the Returning Officer for his impartiality and for having run the system fairly and honestly. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am denying every allegation that the election has been held unfairly. I am denying any smear cast by the Opposition Member for Anson - that we have not run a fair and honest system in the election. The Member for Potong Pasir is not making the same allegation as the Member for Anson - that we have run this election in an unfair manner. Have we run the system in an unfair manner since we have the evidence in this House of the two Opposition Members speaking loud and clear for the system? We would not have them over here, if indeed any allegation of the Member for Potong Pasir or the Member for Anson was correct that we have run the system to our advantage. It is a system that is run by men of integrity. It is a system that will continue to be run by men of integrity. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not know whether I should call you "Your Lordship" or "Mr Speaker" because the Member for Anson just said Parliament is a high court. 

    The new leadership has proposed a culturally vibrant society which calls for the resolution and concerted effort of all of us to strive for and build. I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir has any suggestion to help us achieve this society, instead of just asking to be an adviser to RCs and CCC. He once called Residents' Committee members as rubbish collectors. I do not know whether he has asked these rubbish collectors to invite him to be an adviser to them? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have an amendment* to move but before I speak on that amendment, can I respond to the Member for Potong Pasir's plea for more culture within the allocation of the Ministry of Community Development? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir talked about library services, and he said that in UK, if you want to,borrow a book from a branch library or a sub-branch, and the book is not available, arrangements would be made for the borrower to get the book from the central library. The situation in UK is slightly different. The branches and the central library are quite far apart, whereas in the case of Singapore, we are just 16 by 24 miles and it is not difficult to go from one branch to another to borrow a book. But I agree with him that we should have as many libraries as possible so that our children would have enough opportunities to go to the library and read or borrow books to read at home. 

 this saying, I forgive him. As for the junior Minister who is ignorant of this saying, I am rather puzzled. He said that Thailand has no Ministry of Culture and yet their cultural activities are thriving. He also said that we do not have a Ministry of Housing and yet our housing programme is very well done. I have myself pointed out that Thailand has no Ministry of Culture. My main point is that we have had Ministry of Culture for 25 years and now we have done away with it. As for Ministry of Housing, we need not create a new name just to be different (    ). I am glad that the Member for Potong Pasir supported me in saying that we should promote culture. But the question is "how"? I would like to know from him what can be done to promote culture in Singapore. As a constituent of Potong Pasir, I am entitled to know. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. It is not that we do not want to reply to the Member for Anson, but I think the subject that he is bringing up should be brought up under the Ministry of Education and a proper reply will be given. 

    So if the Member for Anson is really interested in the welfare of these children, he should not come here and be difficult. He is just trying to make political capital out of these poor disabled children. There are more PAP Members here in this House who are involved in assistance to disabled children than the two Opposition Members. They know even more the conditions, the plight, the problems, of disabled children. We are here to try and see what we can do to help these children, not just make political capital out of them. If he is really interested to know what the Ministry of Education is doing on the education of disabled children, raise it under the proper Head. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has given a lot of talk on the disabled and all that. The basic question we have to ask ourselves is: is he personally and directly involved with the provision, involvement and giving of service to all these children? I am sure he is not involved. He has come here to speak on things to rile up various issues. There are many Members here who are involved in the various voluntary organizations dealing with this whole problem. We are here to try and see how we could improve the services and give constructive suggestions. 

 1984, I am not in full possession of the facts. I believe a reply was given to this particular old gentleman from the Ministry of Defence. If my recollection is correct, I think he was pleading for some assistance on the ground that he was a very very old serviceman. He has rendered some service to the country, I think, before Singapore became independent, fighting the Japanese war and so on. And I think he was appealing for some medical benefits to be given to him as a result of his past service. A reply was given to him by the Ministry. I will not be able to quote exactly what the reply was. If the Member for Anson is interested, he could ask me a specific question and I will give him a full and detailed reply on this. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Well, I think we can have a few minutes more so that I can reply to the Member for Anson. Let it not be said by the Member for Anson that we delayed in order to get to the guillotine time. I think we can have a few minutes more, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if Members agree. 

    As to the woman who is supposed to have been struck off the list of cases of PA because she's got somebody living with her, I do not know. I have to get the details. But in going through previous cases that the Member for Anson has raised in this House, specific cases of supposed maladministration or wrongful implementation of policy, in every case that was investigated, it was found and established that the story that he told was quite different from the truth. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am not sure if the hon. Member for Anson was listening when I was describing the process. I said that all suggestions received by the Feedback Unit from the members of the public are evaluated, considered by the Feedback Supervisory Panel and discussed with the Ministries concerned, and every point which they raised will be checked and counter-checked. 

    With regard to the first point raised by the Member for Anson concerning the terms and conditions which would be the subject of regulations to be done subse- 

  hoiyung: The constitutional amendments require a two-thirds majority of this House. If the Member for Anson and the other Opposition Member are both convinced that the White Paper is an outrage and that it merits a reference to a referendum, the matter will be considered. But let me remind the Member for Anson that it costs, as in the case of a general election, something around $70 to $loo million each time to mount such an exercise. 

 for the adjournment. It is about Asian values in our society. Regrettably, the Member for Potong Pasir is not present now. On the llth July, in a speech to NUS students the Member for Potong Pasir said that we must definitely not keep the Asian feudalistic type of society as it would hold us back. Upon hearing that, one might think that there is one more champion in the anti-feudalism force and would applaud for it. This is because feudalism used to bring too much disaster in its trail, especially terminal feudalism in its dying throes, as it represents conservatism, retrogression and darkness. 

    Perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir had exactly realized this psychology of the people to have dared to hoodwink the people by equating "Asian feudalistic type of society" with "Asian values" so as to confuse their thinking and then to advocate "discarding Asian values". 

    According to his arguments, the Government is promoting Asian cultures and values for the sake of preserving its dictatorial role, and destroying the Opposition Party. This kind of argument is no different from his topsy-turvy type of logic about "Asian values" equalling "Asian feudalistic society". Does it mean that facts that are discernible by a million of our electorate could not be perceived by the Member for Potong Pasir? 

    In our 26 years of nationhood, the political institution that we have been practising is parliamentary democracy. After every four or five years, the Government will have to face the electorate who have the absolute right to choose the government they like. The two Opposition Members for Potong Pasir and Anson have come into being precisely under this parliamentary polity. There is no gain-saying that parliamentary polity has been our political institution in practice. If the Member for Potong Pasir would choose to deny this fact, he would, in fact, be denying his own qualification as an MP, 

    The other example is this. In May this year, the Member for Potong Pasir in a speech used the story in a kungfu film where a selfish master would not teach his students all his kungfu movements to be-little Asian cultures and values. People have already made a laughing stock out of this shallow talk.Is this ignorant and flashy attitude not running against the "humble and non-arrogant" image that he has portrayed? 

    Even the colonialists in colonial times dared not openly call out slogans for root destruction. We want to ask: on whose behalf is the Member for Potong Pasir making such calls? And why is he so brazenly audacious? Who has given him the right to demand that we sever our roots and forget our origin? 

    Since the Member for Potong Pasir is somewhat befuddled with what Asian values are, let me touch upon it a little. The Asian value concept that we want to preserve and cultivate has nothing to do with any political institution. The concept is one of ethics; it is a social norm, the principle of human relationship and the foundation of family relationship. In one phrase, it pertains to the attitude of human behaviour. 

    The proposition of "Discarding Asian Values" by the Member for Potong Pasir other than meeting the liking of the lost youths and pleasing them, what other useful purpose can it achieve? To put forward this kind of proposition just to win over the support of a handful of people, it is really too selfish and too shallow in thinking. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the question of Asian values in our society that we are discussing about should actually be clarified by the Member for Potong Pasir. What a pity that he is not in the House. Now I would just like to state the Government's stand on this question. 

  hoiyung: I believe the Member for Anson is referring to the case of Chia Thye Poh who is detained under the Internal Security Act (ISA). Chia was a member of the illegal Communist Party of Malaya (CPM). Chia was specifically instructed by the CPM to penetrate the Barisan Sosialis and engage in Communist United Front agitation to destabilise the Government. This he did by mounting a series of illegal demonstrations and industrial strikes. Chia was therefore placed under preventive detention in November 1966. 

    We have permitted the Member for Anson to see Chia as his legal counsel. 

    The Economic Committee's recommendations are pro-business; and rightly so, because economic recovery is at stake. But to the workers, the CPF cut is a cut in wages. Their most pressing concern is over ability to pay for housing. As reported in the Straits Times on the 18th February, 1986, the Member for Anson accused the Government for not doing anything to make it easier for workers to meet the instalment payments. He has conveniently forgotten that HDB housing loans are being re-scheduled over a longer repayment period. Retrenched workers having difficulty in paying instalments are allowed deferment; and with the drop in CPF interest rate, the interest rate on HDB loans has also come down. The Member for Potong Pasir has called for a 15% reduction in the employees' CPF contribution. Has he done any proper calculations 

 as to how this, together with the 15% cut in employers' contribution, would affect workers' ability to pay for housing, medical expenses, as well as for old age? The way the Government is proposing to deal with the whole CPF question is to ensure that the worker can keep both his job and his home and having enough for Medisave and old age. Again, the Member for Potong Pasir asked for a lowering of the prices of HDB flats. Does he not realize that HDB flats are already very cheap as compared to private flats? And what about those years when private property prices were rocketing, and our workers' flats also rose in property value? 

 now. If you take the average of 1979 to now, plus another one or two years of zero growth, you will get about 5% to 6% average growth. And in the presentation of the First Deputy Prime Minister, for the year 1999 it was projected that if we could attain an average growth rate of between 4% and 6% per annum we should be on target. So unless the recession drags on beyond two years and if we were to adopt the policies of the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir, then we will not be able to achieve the target growth rate of 4-6%. 

    After listening to the long speech by the Member for Potong Pasir, I would like to raise a point - which is, he did not mention at all whether he is in support of the motion or not. I take it to mean from his silence that he is in full support of the Government policies, in full support of the Economic Report, except for the few small points that he has raised. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir mentioned that the Report tried to put the blame for the current economic downturn squarely on external factors. But I remember quite clearly, if he had read the Report and I hope he did read the Report, that the Committee actually mentioned that the factors are two-fold: both internal and external, and not just purely external. So please do not mislead the people. Of course, the facts are clear that our present situation has been caused by a critical convergence of many factors, both internal problems as well as external problems. The Member for Potong Pasir also mentioned that while we are having a recession now, our neighbouring countries are having a slight growth. But he forgot to mention that during the years of 1983 and 1984, Singapore was actually experiencing high growth, substantial high growth, while our neighbouring countries and some major Western economies were experiencing much lower growth. That indeed was the work of the Government. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir mentioned that the Government interfered too much in the free market economy. I would like to point out that Government's involvement in the private sector or in business stems from the early days when there was a need for Government to play a part in stimulating higher employment, by going into business areas which the private sector found they were not in the position or prepared to take up. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir went back to his favourite point, which is that the HDB flat prices are too high. He suggested that the HDB should lower flat prices. This, I suppose, is based on his earlier belief that the HDB is always making a lot of profit and, therefore, can afford to lower its profit 

    The Member for Potong Pasir mentioned that perhaps we should consider lowering employees' CPF contribution. I would like to suggest that the Government should consider this with some caution. There are three factors that we have to look into. The first is that givinga cut to the employee's CPF could create a demand for local services no doubt, but it will also tend to create a higher demand for goods and services which would definitely have an impact on domestic inflation. 

 would like to suggest that the Government please consider this suggestion proposed by the Member for Potong Pasir with some caution. 

    At this time of economic recession, there are some people who are wont to blame and criticize the Government, especially the two Members of the Opposition. They have been criticizing the Government and cashing on the opportunity to say all kinds of things about the Government to play to the Gallery and to earn political capital. But they forget that the eyes of the people are bright and discerning. They know how to distinguish between the right and wrong and will not be misled. A few months ago, the Member for Anson while in a neighbouring country said that we depended on foreign wealth for our success. He held himself up also to be the champion and hero of foreign workers. But the people would want to ask why should he, a person making a living in Singapore, speak for foreigners. Is he really honest in 

    Just now, after listening to the Member for Potong Pasir, I cannot hold on any more and I must speak up my mind. The Member for Potong Pasir put the entire blame of the recession on the Government. I believe that all those who read newspapers will know that the recession has got two main factors. One is the external factors and the other is the internal factors. The external factors include the trade policy, unemployment, protectionism, the economic conditions of other industrially developed countries and their demand for our goods and services. These are factors beyond our control. The economic conditions of our neighbouring countries are also beyond our control. But internal factors are within our grasp and that is why the Government is cautious in setting up the Economic Committee. So it is not right for the Member to put the blame entirely on the Government for the internal and what he said to be "political" factors. 

    I remember a few months ago, the Member for Potong Pasir had already proposed a cut in the CPF. He himself proposed it. And so whether the Government does cut or does not cut is wrong, it is his credit. This amounts to saying that the sun rises because the cocks crow. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also talked about public housing. He said that in other countries housing is only about three times the annual salary of a worker. But here in Singapore we have concrete proof to show that homeownership is foremost in the world, even compared to Japan. Japan is a strong industrialized country. There, only 40% of the people own their own properties. Why is it so? Why is Singapore better off in housing? We only have a small island. We do not have natural resources. We have nothing else. Why is it that we are able to have a better standard of living compared to other countries? More and more people are owning flats. There are more than 60% of people who own their houses. This is concrete proof of the success of the PAP Government. And the people understand that each time the Government calls on them to make sacrifices, eventually the people will have a better standard of living and more jobs, especially the workers. They know that after their sacrifice, they will be able to enjoy the fruits of their sacrifice later on. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir in his speech earlier on showed concern for the workers' interest, and that is good. I think we all do. But his suggestions to help the workers are not convincing. He wants the workers' CPF contribution to be reduced in order to stimulate the domestic market. But will this really happen? I do not think so. I think Singaporeans are more likely to save and be thrifty during hard times. Also, he must remember that any reduction of CPF on the employee side is taxable. I also found him contradictory when 

    The entrepreneurs, businessmen and industrialists, in particular the local ones, therefore should respond equally quickly and decisively to the Government's call for action. In doing so, they will play an important role in turning the economy around and at the same time enjoy better returns for their investment in return for the risks they take. They can even take heart from the remarks made by the Member for Potong Pasir this morning that the private sector be helped to accelerate their business. It appears that the Member for Potong Pasir is not disagreeing with the contents of the Presidential Address and we should look forward to his support when the motion is being voted on. 

    Members have just now heard that the Member for Potong Pasir - I am afraid he is not here right now - saying that if our neighbouring countries could have chalked up 3-4% growth, why did we have negative or zero growth. The reasons why our neighbouring countries have been able to make positive growth despite the recession all round has been adequately explained. And since he is not here right now, I do not think we ought to spend more time in trying to elucidate what he has somehow missed. 

    For example, this morning, the Member for Potong Pasir had asked in this House who should be responsible for this present state of economic recession. The Government has made a careful analysis of this situation and has also taken up the responsibility to devise resolute means and measures to revive the economy. The Opposition Member this morning also asked whether our economic recession would continue for 18 months or 4 years. He is still playing with the game of numerals. I myself am doubtful of the Member for Potong Pasir's figures, because he has more than once blundered over some figures. I do not know whether the figure of four years' of economic recession comes from his own perception or from his advisers' or whether it is mere hearsay. It is regretful that he is not here. Otherwise, I would like to ask him to clarify further on this. 

    In the morning, the Member for Potong Pasir talked for about 20 minutes in which there was neither suggestions nor solutions. He said that the Government wants to reduce the CPF contribution rate of the employer by 15%. He also said that if there if there was something else which goes with it, it would be better. I had hoped to hear from him what he really meant. In the end there was no suggestion from him as to how to revive our economy. But he mentioned there was no announcement about a retrenchment benefits scheme. It seems that the Member for Potong Pasir is very interested in this subject. The Member for Anson also seems to be interested in this subject. He has now and then touched on this question. If we presume that these two Opposition Members are sincere about their suggestion, let us see whether it could be practical. To come downto the final analysis, I feel that offering retrenchment benefit may not be able to solve the problem as one may not be able to give aid forever. But it might give them false expectations or wishful thinkingthat even if they are unemployed they can still rely on some strong backing. This kind of suggestion is dangerous. 

    Let me elaborate. Firstly, the Economic Committee highlighted the fact that salaries for Japanese males increased only to the age of 45-49 years after which they begin to decline. I am not too sure why the Economic Committee highlighted on Japanese males. I do not know what happened to the females. Japanese male employees over the age of 65 earn only 60% of the salaries of the 45-49 age group. The Economic Committee recommended that Singapore should move towards such a system as it encourages employers to employ older workers. This is, however, a drastic change to our present wage system which is basically seniority based, ie, older workers expect higher wages. I am sure the Member for Anson will agree to this. Even if the unions accept this recommendation, they will have a hard time trying to convince the Members of its advantages. A more practical approach and one that deserves our full support is to consider the recommendation that both the employer's and employee's CPF contributions should be progressively reduced after the age of 45. This will help employers to reduce costs and enable older employees to have higher take-home pay. 

 Speaker, Sir, if I could just take up the question by the Member for Anson. 

    As regards safety of school children, this is of utmost concern to my Ministry. Does the Member for Anson not know that almost all of our schools have school buses? How ignorant can the Member be! 

  hoiyung: (In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, perhaps he did not hear me out. I said that at present, for most schools, there are special school buses carrying school children. If there are more than 30 students on the bus, then there will be at least one attendant. I want to stress here that the safety of the school children is the question uppermost in our minds. We pay very great attention to this matter. I hope the Member for Anson would not try to make use of the opportunity to scoop up some political capital out of this issue. Before he asks any question, I would like him to get the facts correct first. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not aware of the case mentioned by the Member for Anson. But, as I have stated, anybody who is cleared as a clearance case, in other words, he is living on a property that is acquired by Government, then that person living on that property is eligible to priority allocation of an HDB flat. That means he jumps the queue and is ahead of many others. He is able to choose the locality and the type of flat he wants to move into. This is the special consideration that a resettlement case gets. Such people will have this priority of choosing the flat in the locality he wants. Therefore, quite often, the owner says, "I am quite happy to get less compensation and be treated as an encumbered case." Therefore, an abatement has to be made and the owner who stays in his property will be accorded priority of choosing the HDB flat in the locality he wants by jumping the queue and getting the flat earlier than others. But if the owner wants vacant possession value, in other words, he wants a higher compensation, then this is simple. He just moves out of the premises and then the Government will pay him higher compensation. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as a Singaporean, I am proud that we have an airline called Singapore Airlines. I believe all Singaporeans are proud of the fact that we have Singapore Airlines. We are proud of Singapore Airlines because it has been successful and it has provided a standard of service which other airlines try to match. As far as possible, when I fly I would like to travel on Singapore Airlines. Because Singapore Airlines provide the service which a traveller requires. When I arrive in a foreign country, I would like to know how much it will cost me from the airport to the hotel where I am staying and I would be grateful if the airline tells me how much money I should prepare myself to spend for that passage of time. I think it is highly improper of the Member for Potong Pasir to say that SIA's information service to travellers to Singapore about taxi fares to 

 million but because some of the services were hived off to the Trans-Island Bus Services they suffered a drop in profits. But I see in 1984 the profits were again picking up and they were going up to $6.6 million in 1984. We have not got the figures for 1985 but we do know that, as a result of the debacle which has been referred to by the Member for Potong Pasir in the Ministry jacking up taxi fares, there was a huge switch by people, who were taking taxis, to buses so that Singapore Bus Services, along with other companies, had benefitted by the debacle of increased taxi fares. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am talking about a robot and if the Member for Anson feels that it fits him, so be it! 

    Let me tell the Member for Anson that governments all over the world have information services and publications to document and publicize their policies, work and achievements. This is a legitimate function and a necessary function of the government. Government has nothing to be ashamed of. Since it is the Government that decides and explains national policies, it is therefore the responsibility of Government Ministers and the PAP MPs to announce and explain them. We cannot, of course, expect the Opposition Members to do this. All these policies are conveyed by Government publications and the mass media and governments all over the world do this. We do not need the Member for Anson's advice to tell us how we should go about carrying our tasks. In fact, many people have complained to me that whenever they turn on the TV to watch SBC's "Today in Parliament", they see the Member for Anson wasting Parliament's time. And they say that he should behave himself instead of interjecting rudely whenever other Members are speaking. 

    Sir, Marina South, as raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, is a good example of the principle of master planning. Sir, if we are not to proceed with the Mass Rapid Transit System, then Marina South will not be capable of high density development. This is because Marina South has the sea on three sides and there is only one possible channel for land traffic to flow into it. If that is the case, then master planning requires that that land be 

    Marina South is a large tract of land. It is approximately 270 hectares. That would take us a long time to develop. The Member for Potong Pasir has no appreciation of the problems involved. He thinks Marina South is just a piece of land that you sell as and when it is convenient in order to fund the building of stations of MRT. That is not the case. The development of a major business centre will take us decades. It will have to be done carefully because this is our last chance to have a vital piece of land centrally located that can be used to develop a new business centre. 

    How do we ensure an efficient and viable bus system? The Member for Anson says, " nationalize it." Let the Government run the bus service. In the very next breath he says, "Oh, Government is into too many things." I do not think Government should get into the business of running buses. It is best left to the private sector. What Government can ensure is that there is sufficient competition so that the competition will drive the bus companies to be more effective. 

    Anything that does not work well in Britain, the Member for Anson is sure to recommend that we do it in Singapore. Anything that works well in Britain that we so assiduously follow, the Member for Anson is sure to recommend that we do it the other way round. We know why he does all these things. But we are not so unwise as to follow him. 

  hoiyung: Sir, in my reply to the Member for Bo Wen, I also stressed that it is not advisable to change fares frequently. This is in the public interest. Let me explain. It has been suggested by some that bus fares should be changed up and down, and as suggested by the Member for Anson, frequently. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir as usual likes to do calculations in spite of the fact that his calculations in the past have been demonstrated to be completely erroneous. He talks about all kinds of numbers. He talks about 2 million passenger trips for taxis per year. 

 trip a day per taxi. Does the Member for Potong Pasir want us to believe that two taxis today are available to carry only one passenger? Sir, I do not want to go into the other arguments that the Member has said. 

    The first one would be the question raised by the Members for Jalan Kayu and Chong Boon on how the Commercial Affairs Investigation Department operates, and also the question by the Member for Anson, because his is inter-related. First, the operations of the Commercial Affairs Investigation Department. This Department was set up in March 1985 following a study made by the Management Services Division of the Ministry of Finance. Commercial crime was on the increase and commercial law was becoming increasingly complex. A separate agency within the Ministry of Finance staffed with legal experts and specialists was therefore created to investigate and prosecute serious and complex offences which come under the following statutes: the Companies Act, Securities Industry Act, 1973, the Trust Companies Act, Finance Companies Act, the Banking Act, the Insurance Act. 

    Coming to the question raised by the Member for Anson, I think he has made some statements which are technically incorrect, and I will have to correct these. He said that the Minister said that in the case of Pan-El the insider trading was only known in 1985. That is not true. The insider trading, I think I recall saying that we knew about it in 1984 but it was investigated by the Stock Exchange and nothing came off it. I think the Member for Anson, as a lawyer, should know that insider trading cases are extremely difficult to prove, much less convict under our present laws. I believe there is not a single case of conviction brought in the courts of Singapore. Neither have there been successful prosecutions of insider trading, I believe, even in the UK under the existing laws. Few cases have been brought to court and successfully prosecuted in the United States even though the laws there are much more strict in this matter. The laws we are proposing in the Securities Industry Act 1986 would be similar to those in the United States. 

    Here, I want to divert slightly on this issue of forward contracts and their legality, as it has some bearing on the inferences laid by the Member for Anson. I have taken advice from the AG's Office and in their procedures for forward contracts as such are not illegal. They are merely contractual devices made to extend credit in the normal course of business by Stock Exchange members. Now, whether the amounts which were extended and the terms under which they were granted were prudent is an entirely separate issue. The advice is that there are some forward contracts which could be illegal, particularly those in which two parties to the contract are common or there might be cases where parties enter into collusion to manipulate forward contracts in order to influence prices in the market. These would clearly be illegal, and I believe certain cases are pending in the courts. Therefore, I think it is best to leave it to the courts to decide because each case is different. 

    On the other point raised by the Member for Anson concerning the powers of the MAS under the Securities Industry Act of 1973, indeed I am aware that Section 3 does give the Minister the power to call for an investigation, but only on substantive evidence. That is the difficulty in which the MAS found itself when it took over the management and administration of the Securities Industry Act in the latter part of 1984. MAS reviewed the provisions and found that there were severe deficiencies in the Act which provided, practically speaking, no surveillance powers what- 

    I therefore believe that there are no grounds for the allegations made against the MAS by the Member for Anson. I am satisfied that the quality of staff is exceptional. Following the reorganization of the MAS in 1981, a programme was immediatelly launched to review all legislation under their control. So far, with the exception of the Securities Industry Act, they have introduced and amended legislation covering the Banking Act, the MAS Act, Finance Companies Act, the Insurance Act, proper gold trading through Simex, Merchant Banking Ordinances, guidelines for 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, yesterday during the Committee of Supply debate on the Ministry of Communications and Information, I pointed out that if the Member for Potong Pasir was going to run down an individual outside of this House, I suggest that he be man enough to repeat whatever he said outside the House. He said, "I will repeat it if I know the exact words." 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (2). Dr Wang is not here. Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, Mr Chiam. 

 is one who is clearly identified as being able to advance the policies and objectives of the Government. If the Member for Potong Pasir is prepared to state that, I am sure my colleague will be prepared to consider him as an adviser. Is he prepared to say that he is prepared to commit himself to advancing the objectives and the policies of the Government? Then he will be an eligible candidate as an adviser to the community centre. 

  hoiyung: Point of clarification. May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir when was it that the PA was the eyes and ears of the Government? Can you please show us the chapter and verse or the publications or the newspaper reports where you read of this instance that the PA is the eyes and ears of the Government, rather than just generalizing? Maybe just give us examples. 

  The Chairman: Can I remind Members that we have 21 more amendments to take before guillotine time at 5.30 pm? Mr Chiam, would you like to withdraw your amendment? 

    The following Question stood in the name of hoiyung: Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Tan Soo Khoon (Alexandra): Mr Chiam is not here, Sir. Question 4. 

 "Yes, very much so every time I look at the mirror." So our ethnic differences will not just go away because we want to wish it away or we can wish it away or just because we blur the distinctions. What the Government can do and will do and continue to do is to strengthen the foundations of nation building (which I have just mentioned before the Member for Potong Pasir came in here) and to strengthen social cohesion and to build on what we have achieved. But the most important consideration, Sir, and that is the point I want to make, is the commitment each Singaporean has in making Singapore his home and making it a better one for his children, for his relatives and for his friends. 

  The Chairman: Before you withdraw, as we are on the question of marriages, I am allowing Mr Chiam to speak as he was unfortunately omitted just now. Mr Chiam, you can have the floor but be very brief, please. 

    I also wish to thank the Leader of the House and the hon. Member for Anson for the kind things they said about me. I am afraid I am getting old and let us hope your forecast will come true. 

  The Senior Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Labour (Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir made some allegations against Government yesterday which have been very ably rebutted by my colleagues on the other side. 

    '$1,000 a month for three years. It is $36,000. Therefore, a flat should not cost the person $36,000. It should be $36,000 or less.' As long as the Member for Potong Pasir does not elaborate on that point, then I submit, Mr Speaker, that his rule of thumb is not reliable. It does not work. I tried to make it work but it could not work. Therefore, what he says is unreliable. Does he propose, for instance, to apply this $36,000 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson asked the question what went wrong between 1982 and 1985. In fact, the answer was in some way provided by the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday. 

    You will recall, Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir came to the strange conclusion that the present difficulties that we are in at the moment are due to political reasons and not economic reasons. He mentioned the dominance of the PAP in Parliament. In fact, he got the facts quite wrong. If he was right in concluding that the present difficulties were political and not economic, if he was right, I am using his arguments, the historical fact is that from 1968 to 1982 in this Parliament, all were PAP Members. Our economic growth was double digit, almost double digit, all the while. 1982, we lost one seat. So our economy went tottering. 1984, we lost two seats. So if the Member for Potong Pasir was right in his analysis that the causes were political and not economic --- 

  hoiyung: I am using the argument of the Member for Potong Pasir. If the analysis of the Member for Potong Pasir was correct, then our present difficulties could be attributed to the fact that we lost two seats in 1984. 

    I was listening intently to the Member for Anson's contribution to help solve our present economic problems. Today we all face the reality of this serious economic crisis and all of us are concerned with our future well-being. So we look forward to 

 contributions from all quarters, including the Member for Anson. But unfortunately, we heard nothing of that sort. Instead we heard the usual barrages of criticism against the Government and also the NTUC. 

  hoiyung: Do not interrupt me. Mr Speaker, could you please tell the Member for Anson that he should give me a chance? If he believes in democratic right, he should give me the democratic right to express my views. 

    I want to enlighten the Member for Anson that issues like these are not the only issues discussed at the Economic Committee meetings because there will be other issues. These issues are discussed not only at these meetings but also outside. For example, apart from their own trade union meetings, the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry met leaders of trade unions and discussed with them on issues affecting labour. He gave his views. He listened to the views of representatives of all the trade unions. The First Deputy Prime Minister had several meetings with trade union leaders from the affiliated unions of the NTUC to discuss with them these issues so as to get a feel of what they think about Government's proposal to make certain adjustments on matters like the CPF cut and wage reforms. The Secretary-General of NTUC himself convened several meetings with leaders of affiliated unions to discuss these issues, and got them to express their views so that their views on issues affecting labour could be channelled to the Government directly. Even as late as yesterday, there was another meeting of trade union leaders with the NTUC Secretary-General. All these views have not only been communicated orally to the Acting Minister for Trade and Industry and to the First Deputy Prime Minister but they will also be presented to the Government in a written form so that the Government, in deciding to what extent the Economic Committee Report could be accepted, would take into account the views of the trade unions. And the trade unions have every reason to believe that these views will be duly considered. 

    I just want to take this opportunity, Mr Speaker, Sir, to disabuse what the Member for Anson is trying to put across - that these views do not represent the majority. In fact, as far as wage policy is concerned and as far as the CPF cut is concerned, as far as matters affecting 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam (Fengshan): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to ask that we reject the amendment proposed by the Member for Anson. When he first started speaking, he directed the attention of the House to the fact that we are not debating the Economic Committee's Report but the President's Address. May I just quote from the President's Address. The President said: 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Backbenchers in the PAP had spoken out of context, I am sure you would have stopped us. But this morning you have had many occasions to stop the Member for Anson. I think this speaks for itself. 

    Sir, it is unfortunate that at this time of economic crisis, in spite of all that he has said, that he does not intend to create mischief, etc, the Member for Anson has again taken on an adversarial role. It is in times of crisis like this that we together should see Singapore through. I hope that the Member for Anson will rethink his position. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, he also called for the resignation of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Communications. He has said that the Government has no longer a moral right to govern. What is morality? Is abandoning a ship in times of trouble moral? Is this what the Workers' Party would do if it was in Government today? It would abandon the ship and take the first flight out with its whole Cabinet! That is not the style of the PAP. We have the mandate of the people. 

    What is the difference between the PAP MPs and the Opposition? Throughout the whole debate, Sir, we have been making suggestions and constructive criticisms. My hon. colleague from Ulu Pandan was this morning making points regarding the medical profession and the way medical services as an industry can contribute to the economic well-being of Singapore in the future. To the Member for Anson, this is irrelevant. But to us, this is a very relevant point and the expansion of any sector which can contribute to the future well-being of Singapore is relevant. 

  The Acting Minister for Community Development (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Speaker, Sir, allow me to make just a few points which the Member for Anson this morning refused to let me interject, although I thought it would be more opportune at that time when he made those points for me to respond to him immediately. But the Member for Anson was, in his usual element, exaggerating problems, misquoting facts, throwing red herrings. But let me raise these few points very quickly. 

  Mr Speaker: Are you referring to the hon. Member for Anson? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: I was making a point about the hon. Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: Oh, I see. But I am not like him. I did not tell the press what I did. The Member for Potong Pasir, I think, once said that what the right hand does, the left hand must not know. He must have quoted the passage from somewhere. In some circumstances I agree with him. And this is one circumstance I would agree with him that I did not make any publicity out of it. 

  hoiyung: But not the Member for Anson. What he does, he must tell the public about it. What he does not 

 do, he also tells the public about it. He called a press conference to announce his setting up of the Anson Needy Fund. To help who? The Workers' Party? 

    First of all, Sir, may I point out that the Member for Anson was wrong when he said that oil prices declined in 1979. I think everybody knows that 1979 was the year when oil prices doubled. So before he goes out on a limb attacking people for the wrong reasons, he had better double check his facts. 

  hoiyung: There is only one thing I admire about the Member for Potong Pasir, ie, at least he gives way relatively readily in comparison with the Member for Anson, and allows me to clarify certain points. Mr Speaker, Sir, I hope he will not lose that virtue. Now if I may just ask him a question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if he would just be patient. He and the Member for Anson are both employers. Both of them have workers. Take just a simple case of two workers in his firm. One is a relatively bad worker, one is a relatively good worker. Which worker will he keep? 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, are you giving way or not? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Potong Pasir keeps misquoting my figures. We cannot be arguing like that. Here I am flying very high and he is down there. I cannot argue with a man like that. $25 billion only, in reserves. Then, work permit holders. I think there are between 150,000 and 180,000 still around in Singapore. Even if you reduce the figure somewhat, you still can more than cover the 60,000 unemployed in Singapore. I do not mean to make fun of the hon. Member. But if you want to debate things seriously in this House, you have got to get your facts straight first. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I cannot quite follow you. You said you were going to talk on the amendment, but you seem to be going off somewhere. I am afraid I cannot follow you. 

    The Member for Anson said that in 1979 the oil prices began dropping and that the Government did not take note of the oil glut. As the Member for Whampoa pointed out, this is not true. In 1979, there was an Iraq/Iran conflict. There was a shortage of oil and the oil prices doubled. The Member for Anson has distorted the facts to support his theory. 

    Of course, there are some internal factors. For example, whilst wage costs have gone up by more than 10% per annum over the past few years, our productivity has increased by only 4.6% per annum. The rise in wages illustrates the fact that the Government has looked after the workers. They enjoy a higher standard of living. The Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir consider themselves as saviours to the workers. But the fact remains that they are not. We have to make changes. For example, the Economic Committee recommended that the employer's CPF contribution be reduced and that there must be wage restraint so that the wage costs would not escalate. We must face reality and find out where the problem lies. Employers, employees and the Government have to work hand in hand. We have to create conditions to attract new investments, and develop Singapore into a regional centre. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I also be allowed to respond to the amendment standing in the name of the Member for Anson. 

    Sir, the only regret that must be expressed today is that the Member for Anson has made a lengthy speech which contained nothing new. Equally regrettable is the speech made by the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday and earlier this afternoon. Both speeches are demonstrations of foggy thinking and groping in the dark. The Member for Anson said that the Report of the Economic Committee has not suggested new ideas to help Singapore overcome the economic problems. But it is the Member for Anson himself who has not provided any ideas for solving our economic difficulties. 

  hoiyung: He has failed to expound any ideas for economic recovery. No solution of any worth has been offered, merely exaggerations. This morning, he tried to mislead the House. He told the House that there were 55,000 taxi drivers in Singapore. For his information, there are only 11,000 taxis in Singapore and a total of 37,000 taxi driving licence holders, and not every one of those 37,000 are actively driving taxis for a living. The Member for Anson's suggestions are misleading illusions, not unlike the mirages that flicker in front of thirsty desert travellers. 

  hoiyung: And along with him, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has tried to give us a history lesson. He told this House that Singapore made tremendous economic growth. Why? Because of the Vietnam War in the 1960s. When did the Vietnam War end? 

  hoiyung: Sir, does he not know that from 1975 to 1982, we made tremendous economic growth here in Singapore without the Vietnam War? I am therefore forced to conclude that both the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson are out of touch with this world, and I have to totally reject the amendment. 

    Let me now proceed to highlight and to refute some of the melodramatic and outrageous claims and allegations that have been brought up. The Member for Anson started off by saying that the President's Speech lacked suggestions in helping Singaporeans. Has he read the speech? Perhaps he has read the wrong speech. The President in his Address clearly accepted, in principle, the recommendations of the Economic Committee. The Report of this Committee spelt out in precise detail ways and means of overcoming our economic problems. But the Member for Anson has failed to understand the impact of these recommendations. He thinks that they are only to benefit the employers. Why? Because he complained that the Economic Committees members were not elected but 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson looks at our economic difficulty as a conflict between employer and employee. He thinks that this problem can be solved by another of his commission of inquiry or another of his referendum. He spoke at length about who is at fault as if it would suddenly diminish our problem if we could find out who is at fault. 

  hoiyung: We should not look at our economic slowdown from a worker versus employer perspective. We must not seek merely to assign responsibility. The Member for Anson is particularly good at making decisions, at announcing conclusions with the benefit of hindsight. Only the Member for Anson can persist in such myopic viewpoint. 

 must also allow employers and those who invest here adequate opportunity to make reasonable return on their investments. This is the only way to encourage more investments by both local and foreign investors. Can the Member for Anson find us investors who are willing to put their millions into unprofitable businesses? Just because the Member for Anson is often foolish enough to indulge in unprofitable ventures does not mean that there are others who would follow him. Without profits, Sir, who will invest? Without investments, how can we find jobs? If we fail to ensure that those who invest make a profit, how are we going to attract more investors here? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir yesterday came to this House and in an apparent show of earnestness expressed concern at the 20,000 or so school leavers who are looking for jobs. Sir, that was all he did, express concern. Did he suggest innovative ways of creating more jobs so that these school leavers will find employment? Where are his ideas? Why not share them with this House? After all, last year during a similar debate on the Presidential Address, the Member for Potong Pasir loudly proclaimed that he is not just any Opposition. He is special. He proclaimed that he shall be a sincere, loyal and constructive opposition. 

  hoiyung: So much for his promises. The Member for Anson also promised much but delivers none. The recommendations of the Economic Committee are exciting and contain bold ideas to invigorate our economy. It is true that workers will have to take a wage cut. This is unpleasant but necessary. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson views this as being unfair on workers. Sir, there is no painless way for us to recover from an economic recession. Some employers have already suffered fatal pains. Their businesses have failed, resulting in retrenchment of workers. Trimming our wages by cutting the employer's CPF is a less painful way of regaining our growth prospect. This move will allow employers to recover some measure of competitiveness against the other newly industrialized countries. It reduces cost for the employers without diminishing the take-home pay of the workers. Taken together with the other recommended reductions on taxes, these measures will help to attract new investments, particularly the proposal to grant a 30% tax rebate on capital investments. This will encourage more entrepreneurs to reinvest part of their profits here in Singapore for business expansion. Sir, this will help workers by providing more employment opportunities. 

    The Member for Anson, however, ignores the obvious. He turns to dangerous divisive tactics. He hopes to turn the workers against the Government. He is against the Government's call to mobilize Singaporeans for a joint effort to turn back the tide of recession. Workers should not allow themselves to be confused by his attempts to polarize the issues which are facing us today. The way to economic recovery is to re-establish our attraction as an investment centre. Some sacrifices by Singaporeans will be needed. These sacrifices will prove to investors that Singaporeans are realistic and supple. That we can deal with setbacks rationally by trimming our expectations and holding on to our standard of living for the next two years, we will be able to achieve a faster 

 turnaround for our economy. The Member for Anson goes on and on about something which must be done to help those who are jobless. 

  hoiyung: Would the Member for Anson please tell this House how much unemployment benefit he would give to those who are unemployed? I am prepared to sit down while he gives us his answer. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson does not have an answer for us. He does not know how much. How long should you give those unemployment benefits that he talks about? 

  hoiyung: Shall we then leave it to the Member for Anson to decide if they are genuinely unemployed"? This is another example of his foggy thinking. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson ignores the fact that even today there are jobs which go a-begging in Singapore. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson wants to know more about the jobs, he can always refer to my colleague, the Member for Mountbatten, who is in the Ministry of Labour. He has already said that if any Member here has difficulty finding jobs for his unemployed constituents, he is always ready to help. And, Sir, yesterday, the Member for Telok Blangah pointed out in this House that there are already in existence at least three organizations whose sole purpose is to help the unemployed to find jobs. These are the Ministry of Labour's Employment Service, the employment bureaux that have been put up by the NTUC and the Singapore Manufacturers' Association. 

    Certain sectors of our economy are still having difficulties filling up their vacancies. Some of these jobs may pay less. The work may be harder but Singaporeans must be willing to adjust their expectations. We have to be flexible if we are to survive difficult times. Retrenched workers must be prepared to take alternative jobs. We must avoid the pitfall of the Member for Anson's catch cry, "Don't take on an alternative job unless the pay is the same as your last drawn salary." But times are hard now. We must be willing to accept changes. 

    The Member for Anson asks that the Government retain all the workers, whether they are needed or not. He cited the case of the PWD workers who had been retrenched after the job at Changi Airport was completed. He suggested that unemployment benefits be paid to those who are jobless. And the Member for Potong Pasir predictably came to his support on this issue. But, Sir, are unemployment benefits really able to solve the retrenched workers' problems? We have a small labour force here. Can we afford to suffer the same ailments seen in some welfare state countries where unemployment benefits have imposed a growing and crippling burden on the output of those who work for their livelihood? 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, the Economic Committee has charted new directions for economic growth. To succeed in our new endeavours, we must have the total support of the people. Giving out unemployment benefits as suggested by the Member for Anson can only retard this effort to evolve a leaner, fitter and more competitive economic machine. We must avoid taking this fatal step, Sir. It can only lead us down the slippery road to welfarism. Nations which have succumbed to this temptation are today feeling the effects of having taken the easy way out. These are nations larger than us, much more wealthy, yet their governments are faced with growing mountains of deficit, chief of which is the welfare deficit. Can we in this tiny island of a nation, devoid of any natural endowments, hope to achieve success where others better equipped than us have encountered nothing but trouble? I seriously urge the Member for Anson to think over carefully what he has said. He should not cast covetous eyes on the Government's surplus and the foreign reserves and see these assets as means of providing soft options to solve immediate problems. He should re-read, that is if he has not read, the Economic Committee's Report. There is much wisdom and 

    Sir, the problem of unemployed Singaporeans is best faced squarely. The long-term solution is to reactivate our economy, make the necessary changes to restart our engine. We should work to reestablish our competitiveness and attraction to investors. When we have succeeded, then Singaporeans will once again be fully and gainfully employed. They will once again be able to use their skills, training, resourcefulness and willingness to work hard to earn better incomes for themselves. The sooner we discard the illusions put up by the Member for Anson, the sooner will we succeed in injecting new vigour into our economy. 

    Sir, even as he was supposedly championing the cause of workers in Singapore, the Member for Anson found the opportunity to go to a neighbouring country to berate all Singaporeans for being selfish and profiteering at our neighbour's expense. I cannot help but suspect that all these posturings smack of opportunism. It is obvious that he sees the recession as a golden opportunity to stir up dissatisfaction both within and without Singapore. It is equally obvious that instead of helping to galvanize Singaporeans to tackle the national problem, he is trying to ingratiate himself with some Singaporeans who are feeling the pinch of unemployment. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir had said yesterday that Government ought not to have politicized private business. He and the Member for Anson have a perception of the economic crisis which is totally coloured. They see the economic crisis as an opportunity to bolster their political ambitions. Do they really care for the jobless? How sincere are they in wanting to help the jobless in Singapore? Or are they more concerned with stirring up discontentment and resentment? The Member for Anson's amendment to the motion shows that he is more interested in undermining efforts for economic recovery than the welfare of workers. Now, who is politicizing our economic difficulties? 

    The Member for Anson had said that the Workers' Party had long ago asked for a 

 cut in the employee's CPF. He thinks that this will help the economy to recover. Everybody knows that one of the problems brought up by reducing the employer's CPF is the extra burden placed on home-owners who have to service housing loans. If the Member for Anson had given deeper thought to this situation, he would understand why cutting the employee's CPF will only aggravate the problem without providing relief for our economic recession. As it is, Sir, a 15% point reduction in employer's CPF is the minimum required to have a significant effect on achieving competitiveness. 

    The Member for Anson himself was reported to have had two constituents who needed help to overcome loan repayment as a result of CPF reduction. I must conclude that he is unhappy over the situation as the number is not to his liking. So he comes to this House to ask for measures to swell the trickle of people who are turning up at his meet-the-people sessions. Is he running out of people coming to see him? He wants the Government to cut the employee's CPF so that more people will experience greater difficulties and therefore more people will run to him for help. 

  hoiyung: Furthermore, we must remember that much of what we need in daily life is imported and any stimulation of domestic demand at grassroots level will result in more leakages of our income. If we try to stimulate domestic demand, as suggested by the Member for Anson, we shall only be increasing the imports of more consumer goods from abroad. But will it provide real stimulus to our economy? For the economy to recover, we need to export more, not to import and consume more. What kind of demand does the Member for Anson want to stimulate? Does he know that there is consumer demand and there are investment demands. What we would like to stimulate is an investment demand, an increase in the investments in Singapore to create more jobs for Singaporeans. 

    Sir, I will not need to go further to demonstrate that the amendment proposed by the Member for Anson has absolutely no merit. The surest way to help Singaporeans ride out this recession is for the Government to take steps to overcome our inherent weaknesses and to provide new opportunities and attractions for investors. The recommendations of the Economic Committee provide a workable recipe for us to channel our efforts for economic recovery. A strong and growing economy is the ultimate answer to difficulties being experienced by jobless Singaporeans. Only by overhauling our economic engine and pointing it in new directions can we hope to provide our people with secure and lasting employment. 

    The prescription held out by the Member for Anson as suggested by his amendment will not only be a poor relief for economic pain, it will actually lead to more problems if taken seriously. Follow his prescription and we will be taking the fatal step towards eroding our own 

    Sir, the recession cannot be overcome by the Government alone. This is a battle for every Singaporean to join in. I am compelled to repeat for the Member for Anson's and the Member for Potong Pasir's sake that there is no painless way to get out of our present position. 

    The Member for Anson makes a long speech which can be summarized in one word, "pipe-dreams". He thinks that the world owes us a living. Let me remind the Member that no one owes us a living. We live and prosper because we can do others a better service, because we can make a better product at a lower cost, because we can keep up with changes and keep ahead of our competitors. If we are unable to do so, then Singapore will suffer. And no amount of promises and unemployment benefits will be able to restore the prosperity and dynamism to our system. Since the last few years, our competitive edges have been dulled. Recovery will not come if we follow the Member for Anson. We must be prepared to reduce our expectations, hold our standard of living and settle for less improvement in the next two years. We must have flexibility in dealing with our problems. The changes are unavoidable. Why does he choose to stick his head into the sand at the first sign of an approaching storm? Singaporeans must reject his approach. We must instead rise to the occasion. We must unite and stand up to be counted on the side of Singapore to push back our economic enemies. We must assert our confidence and strengthen our economic and psychological defence. 

    Sir, I totally reject the amendment put up by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: And they rely their criticism on unreliable sources. Let me cite an example, Sir. When it comes to identifying the problems facing Singapore, the Member for Anson quoted a story from the Guardian and yet the newspaper itself does not know that in Singapore there is no such Minister as Economics Minister. Yet this is the very source of information on which the Member for Anson is basing his arguments. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson too, during his rhetoric and appeal for emotion, had said what had happened to the Singapore as a Garden City. He said that Singapore is a Garden of Beauty. It is still a Garden of Beauty. 

  hoiyung: I am not giving way. He was arguing that point when he said that the Government had lost the moral right to rule. But can I say to this very effect that up until now we are still receiving many requests to be Singapore citizens, to be permanent residents here. Has Singapore changed to such an extent that you are driving people away? Either the Member for Anson is trying to mislead the public by saying that Singapore is such a rotten state that we are not attractive any more. He asked the Government to take full responsibility and to say sorry. Would saying "sorry" solve the problem? He rebutted by saying, "Yes, it helps." It does not help. 

  hoiyung: And then he noted a point that the Government called for sacrifices but the workers are to be sacrified. I would like to suggest that the Member for Anson do his own homework by checking it through the Japanese authority what is the average salary for a Japanese worker in every sector of industry. Are they lower or higher than us? It is important for us to inject facts into arguments before you just pick anything, any quotes, from anyone. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson too had clearly said that the Government had not done anything to those who are affected by retrenchment and recession. He called for immediate relief. And in no uncertain terms he said that we must give the workers employment benefits. He went ahead to suggest that we can use the surpluses and we can use the payroll tax and also the reserves. Well, I must say that this is a clear indication of a danger facing a Party which suggested that at any indication of minor problems we raid the foreign reserves. Such are the arguments, such are the contributions of his long-winded one hour speech this morning, Sir. 

    To add to that, Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir raised the question of taxi drivers, complaining about the decline of their income. Again, if he would be good enough to read the report in the Straits Times a few days ago, he would come across reports about the number of people queueing up to get a taxi licence. If the income provided by taxi driving is so unprofitable, I think Singaporeans would not queue up to get a licence. The fact remains that taxi driving in Singapore is still a profitable business. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson finds the Chamber a place not enough to argue his points. He had also taken what he sees as the common man's problems to the press. He had raised the question of how 112 retrenched workers from the PWD had not been given a job. He repeated that today by saying that Government had done nothing to help those who are affected by retrenchment. Has he done his own homework? I just spoke to the Minister for Labour and I was informed that out of the 113 affected (not 112), 95 of the workers opted to be retrenched. 

 bread-winners whose loss of jobs would mean a complete loss of the ability to fulfil basic needs of the family after having spent the money obtained from retrenchment compensation. For this group of people, there is real need for us to look into the flexibility of enabling them to continue with their lives. While I am not for hand-outs to be given to them, I believe that there is still a possibility of providing them with a lifeline through the existing mechanism at no cost. Sir, if we are able to accept that there ought to be an exception to the rule of across-the-board approach to the CPF cut, then these people would benefit from the possible use of their CPF money to sustain minimum expenditure needed for the family. Sir, I propose that such people be allowed to withdraw a certain amount, say, about $400 a month, during the period in which they are unemployed, and I think this is a suggestion against the proposal of using unemployment benefits, as suggested by the Member for Anson. 

    On that note, Sir, I reject the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. 

    38 years later, the Member for Potong Pasir was reported in the Straits Times to have said that the Maria Hertogh riots were not racial, but involved people fighting for "political and social rights" and a "better livelihood". That is why continual National Education is necessary! Even with continual National Education, there will still be foolish politicians who would wish to rewrite history. But at least, fewer will believe them and there will be far fewer tragic consequences. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you can have the Floor after Mr Tarmugi. 

  hoiyung: I am sorry, General Lee. Continue, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Order, Mr Chiam. The question of GRCs is a subject matter of a Bill which is now referred to a Select Committee. It is out of order for you to discuss this matter on this question. 

    Now I would like to touch on education and manpower. Earlier it was stated by the Member for Potong Pasir that 500 or 600 thousand of our workers did not possess a PSLE. Actually these are remnants of those under the colonial government. These are old workers who had been sacrificed by history because opportunities for them to enjoy education like what our children are now enjoying did not exist then. These people are those above 40 years of age and it is not the fault of the PAP Government that they are not educated. In education age should not be an obstacle. As long as we have the will, we should continue to further one's education. We need to continue with our efforts for a better life, while not neglecting our respective responsibilities to our families, communities, cultures, languages and religions. 

  In Mandarin): Sir, first of all, let me say that it is necessary for me to rebut the equivocations the Member for Potong Pasir uttered this morning. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir agreed that this document is very important. But he did not touch on the contents of it and he also did not explain why it is important. Let me explain to him that this document is important because it has been compiled after one whole year's consultation between the Government and the people. Secondly, this document will become the basis of Government's policy and nation building for the coming decades. Therefore, it is obviously very important. The Member for Potong Pasir, he is not here now, when making his speech this morning, said that Singaporeans dare not express their opinions. He also quoted certain remarks of members of public quoted in the English newspapers to support his argument. I feel it is wrong to generalize on just a few examples. As a Member of the Feedback Unit Supervisory Panel dealing with public opinion or feedbacks, for one whole year I had the opportunity to have dialogues and discussions with people from all walks of life, including professionals. We have found that the people of Singapore are not like what he has said, who dare not express their views. On the contrary, they have willingly expressed their views on the National Agenda and Policies, bluntly and constructively. Maybe there are a few people who 

    It contains the aspirations for themselves and for Singapore. I believe all of us in this Chamber, including the Member for Potong Pasir, will find that in this document we are listening to the voices of the people of Singapore. Of the issues discussed in the Green Paper, I shall restrict my comment to only a few. 

  The Minister for Education (Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have noted that a few Members have commented on the matter of the University's admission policy, just now by the Member for Bukit Timah, this morning by the Member for Potong Pasir, and also 

    But, Sir, does this mean that we should simply open the gates and allow anyone and every student to enter university? I presume this is what was suggested by the Member for Potong Pasir this morning - that we should not worry too much as to whether these students would have jobs after they graduate but that we should open the university so that they can go in, cultivate their minds, and this is the way towards a Society of Excellence. 

    The fourth pattern. This relates to the role of the trade unions. We cannot agree more with the intent of the section on Economic Growth and Progress that workers should improve themselves, which in turn places emphasis on the positive role of the trade unions, through the BEST, WISE and MOST schemes. And I am sure the Member for Potong Pasir appreciates these noble efforts. Many more of our workers are benefitting from this symbiotic relationship. This must be continued because our future lies in how best our people are able to gain education and new technology. The success and self-respect of the country and the society lies in it. 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam (Fengshan): Sir, I rise in support of the motion. Sir, this Agenda for Action sets out the goals and challenges facing us as a nation. It has been formulated after extensive debate and discussion over one year. Even the Opposition has been invited to give his views. The Member for Potong Pasir this 

 morning said that he was not invited, but I have hear a clipping of the Sunday Times, 18th January 1987, with the headlines, "Chiam responds to call for ideas". [handed to Mr Chiam]. He has also said that the Agenda is not acceptable but not because of the contents. He did not comment on the contents itself. He said that the public did not accept the document because they questioned the sincerity of the Government. My question to the Member for Potong Pasir is whether he accepts the contents of the document. Whether his Party accepts the contents of the document. Mr Chiam, would youlike to answer? 

  hoiyung: I think you are right. Dr Beng, you should not interrupt Mr Chiam's reading. 

  Dr Arthur Beng Kian Lam: My apologies, Mr Chiam. Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir. 

    Sir, of all the goals that we have set for ourselves, the most fundamental is nation building. Ours is a nation of approximately 20 years of age. In this short period we have transformed ourselves from a largely immigrant society into a cohesive society. Approximately 85% of the population are home owners. We have been able to convince our citizens of the importance of national service and total defence. Our reservists take their training seriously and mobilization exercises also very seriously, for they know that in an emergency the reservists will be the front line soldiers. However, can we claim to have arrived in nation building? The answer is that we have achieved much compared to the time of the Maria Hertogh's riots. Here again, the Member for Potong Pasir claims that the Maria Hertogh's riots are not racial. May I again, Sir, with your permission, give the Member the newspaper clippings for his perusal in the conviction and hope that I may be able to change his mind. [clippings handed to hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have been given this newspaper cutting in regard to Maria Hertogh. I see nothing in there at all. It is just two human-interest stories. Nothing said about racial riots or Jihad. Where is it, can you please point out to me? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I ask the Member for Potong Pasir to clarify whether he was actually invited to make representations on the National Agenda? Does he still deny it? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think we should not allow the Member for Potong Pasir to launch another speech on the same issue. I shall reply to his question on credibility later on. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, you have responded sufficiently to Dr Beng's point. Unless you have any fresh points to make, I cannot allow you to continue. Have you any fresh points? 

  The Minister of State for Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Sir, I felt I should join in this discussion about history because the Member for Potong Pasir obviously not only does not understand history but he is also prepared to take history and turn it around. We are referring to the Maria Hertogh riots in the early 50's. His point is 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, for this opportunity to speak. I have no intention originally of joining in the debate but since the Member for Potong Pasir's favourite catchword is credibility, maybe we should also look at his credibility. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir was quoting a particular newspaper report from Sunday Times this morning, and he gave us the impression that the response to a speech which I made in the National University of Singapore sometime back was that the people were all afraid of speaking up, and he gave us some quotations. My intention is really just to read some other quotations in the same report which the Member for Potong Pasir has very conveniently left out, and indeed, to read the quotation from one gentleman whom he has quoted but has quoted only one portion of the remarks that the gentleman has made. This gentleman referred to in the report is a top level banker in his early 40's who preferred not to be named, and these are the quotes which the Member for Potong Pasir has very conveniently left out. He says: 

Very conveniently, the Member for Potong Pasir has left that out. 

    Sir, I will give Members of the House some other quotations from the same report to show that the Member has completely quoted out of context the responses of a large number of people, and then I leave it to the Members of this House to judge for themselves whether the Member for Potong Pasir has been less than honest with the House and whether his credibility --- 

  Dr Ho Tat Kin (Boon Teck): Sir, this document that is presented to the House today is the result of a year of discussions among the people, the grassroots leaders, professional groups and the Government. It is a milestone in our history as never before has so much consultation been going on between the Government and the people. The Goals summarized in the Green Paper are a consensus of the people. The consensus shows that Singaporeans generally agree on major issues, even the Member for Potong Pasir cannot disagree with them. 

  Mr Teo Chong Tee (Changi): Sir, I would like to speak in Mandarin. But before I do that, would you allow me to comment on what the Member for Potong Pasir has just said? It is better for me to say it in English for his own convenience. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, the Member for Potong Pasir has said that he has no objection to this Green Paper. I would like to ask him whether he would use it as a manifesto for his party in the next General Elections. If he can do so, then the PAP and the SDP will be able to tell the electorate to make a choice between them on a common objective. I would like the Member for Potong Pasir to consider whether he can do this. 

 today is testimony to the credibility of the first generation leaders. The credibility of the next generation in this Vision would be established when we systematically apply ourselves to implementing the goals that we have set for ourselves. That is how we should look at the question of credibility, a matter which the Member for Potong Pasir had earlier raised. 

    I would like to ask the Member for Potong Pasir about the credibility of the SDP. For example, I would like to ask him whether in his Party there are two standards, one for the Chairman and one for the Secretary-General, particularly with respect to the issue of multi-racialism, an issue which we consider to be fundamental to the success, the stability and the progress of Singapore. Would the Member for Potong Pasir announce unequivocally in this House whether his Party subscribes to the principles of multi-racialism and whether he has sorted out his differences with his Party Chairman. 

  hoiyung: May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir whether he 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I have allowed you to rise not to make a new speech. Just respond to his point. 

    I am pleased to note that every Member of Parliament in this House fully endorses the Agenda for Action, including the Member for Potong Pasir. He has said openly that he agrees with the contents of the document, though he may disagree in other aspects, such as the implementation of ideas in the document. I take it that he agrees with every word as contained in the document because in his speech he has not singled out a single phrase or a single 

    I had hoped that the Member for Potong Pasir would not have followed the steps of the former Member for Anson, and that is to come to this House and make smears against the Government, not backed by evidence. He said that the Government lacked credibility because I refused to tell him when would be the date of the next General Elections. He wanted to know and he was pressing as to when the Prime Minister would retire as Prime Minister. Of course he got no answer from me so he said we were not open enough, and that the Government lacked credibility. Now, if the Government lacks credibility, how would the Member explain that this party has won every General Election since 1959 and each time with more than 50% of the votes? How would he explain the homes which we have built for the people, the MRT, the beautiful city, and the fact that he can have a successful practice in law in Singapore? Lack of credibility? Be realistic and do not come to this House just to smear, and hoping that he can in the process gain some disaffected votes. 

    He said that the Government, if it believes in democracy, should hold by-elections in Anson and Geylang West. Now, where does it state in the law that a by-election has to be held at all? There are now two seats vacant and I am giving the Member for Potong Pasir advance notice that soon 79 seats will be vacant in this House. He should make good use of the time, the notice which I am giving him, to look for good candidates, if he can get them, to meet us in the General Elections in all 79 seats. He might claim that he would not be able to do so because we have de-politicized Singaporeans. Have we in any way stopped the Member for Potong Pasir should he wish to call mass rallies to politicize the people? Has he not been holding forums to meet our points? Of course, we know that his forum has not been very well attended. I believe maybe about 100-150 people attended. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: All right. Mr Chiam. 

    There is no restriction on anybody who wants to speak up in Singapore. Honourable people with honourable intentions and honourable views do not have to fear speaking up in public, criticizing the Government, if they think they have got a point of view. But we cannot allow anyone just to merrily throw stones at the Government. We reserve the right to reply. This point must be clear to the Member for Potong Pasir and to all Singaporeans - that the Government insists on the right of reply, whether stones are thrown at the Government by local Singaporeans or by foreigners. You have the right to speak; we have the right to reply. It is not the fear of speaking up that prevents them from speaking up. It is the fear of the way the Government will reply to them, in the process humiliating them perhaps, when we show them up to be people with no serious views, no serious arguments against our point of view, people who are unable to back up their criticism. And the same applies to our reaction to the Law Society when they took on the Government - that we were trying to stifle dissent when we moved the Newspaper and Printing Presses (Amendment) Act in this House. We asked for the right to reply and in the process, some of them were hurt. 

    Another the event happened only last year, but the Member for Potong Pasir seems to have forgotten that had it not been for the vigilance of the Police, the Internal Security Department, there could have been some racial skirmishes. 

    I made that point to counter the Member for Potong Pasir's argument that Singaporeans are rational, that they would not go on riot. I am telling the Member that had it not been for the vigilance of the ISD there could have been a racial skirmish. And maybe if conditions had not been created for the races to live in harmony, that incident could have erupted into something more serious. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has said quite clearly in his first address here that he supports the idea of a strong defence within the limits of our affordability and, if need be, he will sacrifice himself for the defence of the nation. That is entirely correct and it is a sentiment which we would like every Singaporean to have. It is a pity that the Member was absent during the Committee of Supply. So it was not possible for us to have the benefit of his views and advice on how we can better improve our national defence preparedness, but I am sure there will be many opportunities for more positive contributions later on. 

    Although the Opposition Member for Anson spoke up during the Committee of Supply on Defence matters, it is worthy to note that the fundamentals were unchallenged and were presumed to be correct, that we have to spend a reasonable sum, that we must be prepared, and that we must be ready even though we do not have any enemies today. This is a very significant development which should not pass unnoticed and which, in fact, should be applauded. Such progress cannot fail to have a good effect on the reservists' morale and performance in the SAF. 

  hoiyung: Point of order, Sir. I do not want to interrupt the discussion between the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Moulmein. But the Member is not making a point of clarification. He is making a speech. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong: Sir, may I answer the Member for Potong Pasir? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your time of 10 minutes is up. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir made reference to my point about importing foreign graduates, and he suggested another university to solve the problem. May I ask him how another university can solve the sexual imbalance due to the fact that male graduates prefer to marry non-graduates? 

    Some people feel that other factors in school are important, for example, the size of the classes, the number of pupils per class. The Member for Potong Pasir touched on this point. Sir, in fact, those who are not knowledgeable about education or directly concerned with the professional aspects of education, do bring up all kinds of points on how to make education more effective. For example, the size of classrooms or the conditions of the buildings in the schools and so on. Let me just deal with the size of classrooms. It is no secret, Sir, that in Singapore some of our best secondary schools, ie, the secondary schools to which many of our most able pupils after PSLE choose to go to are also schools which have very large classes. F6r example, Raffles Institution has 44 pupils 

    On the question of adequate number of teachers, I know the Member for Anson has touched on this subject every year. I thank him for bringing it up because this is a topic which concerns us. It is not something that we are overlooking. It is not something that we are ignoring. In fact, as I said, we are very concerned about the shortage of teachers. Perhaps with the slight recession that we are experiencing in the Singapore economy today, it might be easier for us to recruit teachers. Because, Sir, the education service has to compete in the open market with all other employers and all other sectors for young men and young women for the teaching service. As we have progressed, opportunities of all kinds of employment abound for young people with good 'A' levels or with degrees. These are the very same people we are trying to attract into the teaching service. 

    So I want to assure the Member for Anson that we are doing everything we can to recruit teachers to remove the shortfall in the teacher establishment. 

    Finally, Sir, the education for disabled children, ie, mentally and physically disabled children. The Member for Anson 

    Sir, this subject on what the Government is doing for the needs of those who are disabled educationally has come up every year. The Member for Anson has spoken on this. The main thrust of what he says is that the Government is not doing enough and that the Government must do very much more than what it is doing. I am afraid that he is not in full possession of the facts, and I would take this opportunity to explain to him what the Government is, in fact, doing for special education. 

    The Member for Anson did not repeat the point today but he certainly made it on Saturday that this course is of a low standard, the quality is poor, and so on. I do not think he was speaking from knowledge or otherwise he would not have made those remarks. This course was worked out very closely between the Institute of Education and the special schools themselves. Their requirements were fitted into the course. So how can he say that the course is of a low standard and of poor quality when it is tailored to the needs of the special schools, and done in consultation with them? In addition to that, the Institute of Education brings in foreign experts for short spells to run specific parts of this course. To-date, they have brought in three experts from Australia and one from Canada, all at the expense of the Institute of Education, to take part in this art-time course. I do not think the 

    Referring to the point made by the Member for Anson, on the resignation rate of teachers. It is very low. Last year, the turnover or resignation rate for graduate teachers was a mere 2.6%, and for non-graduate teachers it was less than 1%. The shortage is not because of resignation. Sir, the shortage is because our system has expanded as a result of streaming. We have now introduced more classes and smaller classes to cater for the needs of the pupils in the Monolingual stream, the Extended stream. We have given these pupils two additional years in school. All these require classrooms and teachers. This is really provision for pupils of the very type we were talking about earlier, who had these needs. 

  Dr Lau Teik Soon (Serangoon Gardens): Sir, before I deal with the two points which I would like to bring to the attention of the Minister, I would like to refer to a point made by the Member for Potong Pasir. He mentioned that the NUS undergraduates were being muzzled and implied that they were not given the opportunity to express their views, comments and suggestions freely, particularly on political issues. 

    Sir, we are all aware that in the NUS there are a number of associations and clubs. Aside from the Students' Union, there are the Political Association, the Democratic Socialists Club, the Political Science Society, and other clubs. In fact, Sir, the Members of the Opposition, including the Member for Potong Pasir, have been invited by the students' body to address them. And I am sure when he spoke his mouth was not muzzled. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have already explained that for the financial year in question, the HDB has suffered a deficit of $38.7 million. But if the Member for Anson is interested in detailed accounting, he can write to me and I will give him a written reply. 

  hoiyung: Where is your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, STPB has been working very closely with the Malaysian Tourism Promotion Authority. We have indeed organized such joint package tours where tourists staying in Singapore can take sight tours to Malaysia. This is constantly being promoted and, as the Member for Anson must be well aware of, we have also explored other opportunities to go into joint tourism development. For instance, the plan to provide a ferry connection between Changi and the Desaru holiday complex is just one of these means of linking up tourist attractions in both countries. 

  The Acting Minister for Trade and Industry (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Speaker, Sir, if I may supplement the comments of my Minister of State, with regard to the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, as to why we are starting a beach hotel in Sentosa when Apollo Sentosa has just closed down, and with regard to the questions raised by the Member for Whampoa, as to whether we think there are enough two and three star hotels in Singapore and what is the reasonable occupancy rate for hotels. 

    Let me move on to the Member for Anson. He has made a plea that the Ministry be less rigid in collecting charges. He has mentioned a case of a man who is now jobless who has approached him for advice. I am very happy that for once he has given him good advice, and that is, "Please go to the hospital, inform them of your plight and the hospital will help you." That is the correct advice to give and I hope he will abide by this practice in the future. 

  hoiyung: On a point of clarification, Sir. The point is that the Member for Potong Pasir has two amendments in his name, according to the Order Paper Supplement. So I do not know, on what basis, he claims he has four. 

 for Potong Pasir's point about whether the CPF is able to pay. This is a very important point. I have given my assurance repeatedly, and I think I have convinced the Member for Anson. Somehow the Member for Potong Pasir refuses to understand. He himself has quoted the figures; saying that we have reserves of over $33 billion. This clearly is more than the total CPF of about $24 billion. It is true we have invested the money carefully in overseas assets. A lot of these are Government bonds. There is no problem selling off those bonds to pay the CPF members. Our reserves position is such that even if today we have to pay off all the CPF members at once, there will be enough money to pay. Of course, such a situation will never happen because people reach 55 years at different times and so, when they do, there will be money for them to withdraw. I think it is important, if the Member wants to be a responsible Opposition Member, for him to understand the position. Philips and Drew has made a mistake. They have been to our MAS and they have got an explanation. If you ask them now, they can tell you what are the areas they have gone wrong. The fact is this. There is no need to go into a lot of accounting here. What CPF does is to collect the deposits from CPF members and lend them to the Government. Government then invests it overseas. And all these years we have been able to generate surpluses, so much so that now, effectively, all the CPF savings have been saved up and invested overseas. 

    One of the problems of the Member for Potong Pasir is that he has a tendency to go into numbers. Unfortunately, as we have seen in this House, he is not very good at numbers. I am sorry to say so. An understanding of this position requires some skill with numbers, like reading accounts and so on. He is under the impression that because, in some distant future, the withdrawals will exceed the amounts put into the CPF, therefore CPF will be unable to pay, as compared to the present, when we put in more than we draw out. Let me give him a simple example. You have a cash box and every month you put in some money. At the same time you also take out some money from the box. But each month you put in more money than you take out. What happens? 

 inability to pay. Maybe the Member for Anson can convince him outside the House. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also made a big song and dance about our decision to cut the CPF rate on the employer's side. The position is this. When we first discussed this issue, most of the Ministers in Cabinet, including myself, were strongly against any cut in the employer's CPF because we know it is the pay of the workers, and we should not touch it except as a last resort. As the months passed by and the economic situation got worse and worse - this morning we heard that growth for the first quarter is -4% - we realized that we should not stick to that position. It is better for us to take a cut in the savings than sacrifice jobs. 

  hoiyung: You keep on interrupting, Mr Chiam. When you were speaking, no one was interrupting you. 

    I would like now to deal with the other questions concerning unemployment. The Member for Anson, in his usual style, has been throwing a lot of mud in my direction. Many members of the public who have been assisted by my Ministry realize the kind of efforts my officers have made in trying to help the people to find jobs and they can tell the Member that he has been spreading a wild lie. The fact is that my Ministry is doing its very best. We have deployed more people (I think about 14 more officers) from the Works Permit 

    The Member for Anson has been spreading this rumour that we give the unemployed worker a card stamped "six months" and we ask him to wait. 

    The Member for Anson made a few wild allegations about the Workmen's Compensation Department. Let me just clarify the facts for him. 

 changes. So partly through this process, some of the money have also been accumulated. Eventually, this money will have to be transferred to the Treasury. So there is no incompetence on the part of my officers. If the Member for Anson knows of any person who has not collected his money, please tell him to come and collect. The money is waiting for him. 

    Again, the Member for Anson has asked why we do not supervise companies which retrenched workers? Why do we not have some laws to protect the workers from this retrenchment? I have tried to explain to him why it is unnecessary. Let me give him some facts. 

 companies holding back their workers, productivity last year went down from 6.4% in 1984 to 3.4%. There is no need for us to try and second- guess the management. Management is there to do the job. They know whether or not a job is necessary. They know whether a worker is productive, and which worker is not. What is the market situation? Can they have orders six months' time, 12 months' time? How can we, as officials, go and tell them, "Look, you must not retrench this fellow. You must not retrench that fellow." That will be the surest way to frighten away investors, at a time when we need more investments in order to create more jobs. The solution to our unemployment problem is not more hot air from the Member for Anson but serious marketing efforts - to go out and sell to foreign investors, convince them that Singapore is a good place to invest. This will create jobs. The solution to our unemployment problem is for our workers to accept the situation that there are jobs available, though less desirable jobs but still jobs that can enable them to earn a living. Make the adjustments and my Ministry will do our best to help them. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, as Standing Orders would only permit me to make a statement in the morning, I will make it this morning even though the Member for Potong Pasir is yet again slow in taking up his seat and is not here. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Sir, yesterday, I rose to tender a transcript of the speech given by the Member for Potong Pasir on Monday in order to give him the exact words that he asked for, which he said he would repeat outside the House. I rise again this 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am happy to note that in rising to protect the interest of all Singaporeans against MPs who make scurrilous remarks about them, I have managed to get the Member for Potong Pasir to withdraw his statement and to apologize to the journalist concerned. 

    Sir, I would also like to bring to the attention of the House the fact that the Member, in his speech on Monday, has also misled the House. The Member told us that the article that he took offence with was headlined, "PAP will win". According to a newspaper report in the Straits Times this morning, an article with such a headline did not exist. The headline was "PAP is confident of win in Anson today". This is totally different from what the Member for Potong Pasir told us the other day. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir says he remembers that 15 years ago when the Indonesians decided to develop Batam, Singapore entrepreneurs were encouraged to invest in Batam, and asks if we should do that again. He did not say who did the encouraging 15 years ago. It is the Singapore Government's policy to encourage all entrepreneurs to seek opportunities, evaluate them, make their own judgments and move in where they feel that there is business to be done and profits to be made. It is not the Government's policy to back specific projects, particularly when they are not projects of the Singapore Government, because that leads to possible misunderstanding later on. If the project does well, well and good. If the project does not do well, what responsibility does the Government bear for pushing the private sector to do something which perhaps was against its better judgment? We can leave this to the private sector. It is a development on Batam. It is not appropriate for me to advise the Batam authorities how to proceed. 

  The Chairman: Amendment No. (4), Mr Chiam. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Chairman, Sir, I agree with many of the things which the Member for Potong Pasir has said. Let me just make a few supplementary comments. 

    Cut corporate and income tax? The Minister for Finance has given his answer. The general point made by the Member for Potong Pasir is valid, ie, that we should always watch our competitiveness vis-a-vis other NICs and make sure that we never get out of line. Corporate and income tax is one of the factors. It is not the only one. It also depends on our wages. It depends on how stable the Government is. It depends whether the investors believe this is a PAP government with the confidence of the population, which will continue to have that confidence and remain in power for the foreseeable future, or whether this is a government which is pushed around, uncertain of what to do, maleable and yielding to temporary moods of the moment. If there is a stable government and if we are competitive, investors will come, as indeed I am happy to say investors have been coming, from Japan, as the Member pointed out, but also from other countries. In particular, this year potential investment commitments from the United States have also picked up most encouragingly. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, are you withdrawing your amendment? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have filed an amendment and you have indicated the topic precisely, "Functions and Responsibilities of the Senior Minister". Do I get from you that you do not intend to proceed with this? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, before you carry on, you have said that you do not wish to speak on this topic. Are you speaking on this or not? Because you cannot raise any issue other than what you have indicated. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can I ask you, in moving this amendment, do you intend to speak on what you have indicated? Yes or No? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you can only discuss what you have submitted. Are you therefore speaking on what you have indicated you wished to speak on? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do you know the procedure of debate in the Committee of Supply? I have a feeling you do not understand. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. Dr Ow, do you want to continue with your next issue? 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam is not here. Encik Othman is also not here. Dr Ow, would you like to speak on your next topic? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, will you listen to me! You will be given an opportunity to have your say afterwards. So allow Mr Goh to carry on, please. Will you please sit down? In time, you will have your say. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, the reason is very simple. If we do not stop such interfering and subversive activities, then the result will be that our national interests and security will be damaged and our sovereignty and stability will be affected. Can't the Member for Potong Pasir not understand that? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, will you please allow Mr Goh to carry on? You can argue about that later on in your speech. 

  hoiyung: Point of order, Mr Speaker. I think Mr Chiam is completely out of order in interjecting in this manner. He has his chance to speak. He will speak afterwards. 

 pointed that the Member for Potong Pasir seems to be so very anxious to speak on behalf of somebody else. Anyway, he will have his opportunity. So he need not be so very anxious. 

  hoiyung: Point of order, Mr Speaker, Sir. If the Member for Potong Pasir wants to change the motion, he should move an amendment to the motion instead of making a speech. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not one who would like to take the Member for Potong Pasir to task. When I first read his proposed amendment to this motion, I thought that he was not serious. What he has proposed strikes at the very core of a sovereign state. He is suggesting that all pressure groups, particularly foreign ones, have the right to interfere in our domestic affairs. I think even the US government will flinch at this idea that all foreign groups, and that includes legitimate agencies of foreign governments, may interfere in US affairs. Sir, I shall leave the Member's amendment for debate by my colleagues, suffice to say that the Member for Potong Pasir should, instead of encouraging these foreign groups to meddle in our domestic affairs, should urge these pressure groups, particularly those based in Australia, to direct more 

    By the next meeting, it was already not-so-innocent. In January 1988, Hendrickson telephoned Seong out of the blue. He had found Seong's telephone number, rang him up, asked Patrick Seong to meet him alone. Patrick Seong had some qualms, but went ahead. Hendrickson told Seong that he was "putting up a report on human rights in Singapore", which indeed he was. But when Patrick Seong took him at face value and started talking about the detainees who were his clients, and how they had been treated in detention, he found that Hendrickson was not interested. His concern was not torture or ill-treatment. Hendrickson wanted to talk politics - whether the General Elections would be held this year, how the GRC Bill would affect the chances for the Opposition and (the Member for Potong Pasir would be glad to hear this) the chances of the MP for Potong Pasir, Mr Chiam, winning the next elections. 

    In March 1988, just two months ago, he did something which put him clearly beyond the pale. Hendrickson told Patrick Seong, "Lambertson is coming to town". David Lambertson, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South East Asia, a very senior official from the State Department. "Please gather a group of like-minded friends to meet Lambertson." "Like-minded friends" means don't invite the Member for Chua Chu Kang or MacPherson or anybody like that. For that matter, they did not approach the Member for Potong Pasir; I don't know why. So Seong invited Teo Soh Lung and Tang Lay Lee to go to the meeting. The two girls went but they did not make it only because they got mixed up as to where to rendezvous at the Marina Mandarin. So they gave up and went home. But they tried to go. The meeting was held in the lobby of the Marina Mandarin. As I said, we have photographs to show that this took place. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I am happy to hear the assurance given by the Member for Potong Pasir. It confirms our own assessment. Hendrickson must have agreed with us that the Member for Potong Pasir is upright, incorruptible and insubornable. And therefore he never tried to do with Mr Chiam what he tried with Francis Seow. But if the Member for Potong Pasir did not have an offer for asylum nor is he seeking one, as he has reassured this House, why did Francis Seow need one? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, I hate to pursue this line, but I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir also makes it a habit to borrow money from his girl friends! 

  hoiyung: It is a very unusual statement, Mr Chiam. You can ask a supplementary question if you want. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, HDB has provided adequate motorcycle parking lots in the housing estates. Perhaps I can give the Member for Anson some figures. HDB manages a total of 103,118 motorcycle lots as at 30th June 1986, that is, up to middle of this year. Only 46,000 season tickets are sold for motorcycle parking, that is 45% In other words, out of 103,118 lots, we only managed to sell less than 50,000 season tickets, which shows that there are ample motorcycle parking lots available. 

    Coming to the questions from the Member for Potong Pasir. He asked what is the rationale for this scheme. I think the rationale is very clear to all the other Members. I do not know why it was not clear to him. I have already explained in full in the Statement as well as in answering some of the questions the basic thinking behind the scheme. We are not saying that Singaporeans are spendthrift, that they will squander their money. Far 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also asked whether I could give an assurance that the Minimum Sum of $30,000 would not be raised. If he had listened carefully to my speech, he would have heard me saying that the $30,000 is based on the current value of money. So it is inevitable that, in money terms, we have to make adjustments for inflation. If not, then very soon the sum of $30,000 will be quite meaningless. In terms of its purchasing power, say over a period of 20 years or 30 years, the value would have dropped to maybe one-half or one-third. I therefore said in my statement quite clearly that my Ministry would review the sum every three to five years. And if there is a need, then we will have to adjust the sum to compensate for inflation. I have also said that we are confining it to the $30,000 in real value, the intention being to leave the member with maximum discretion to manage his own savings. The intention is not to widen the Scheme so that more and more money is taken up. The intention is to provide a minimum safety net but because there is inflation, it is inevitable that we must adjust the sum. But for a person who has $30,000 now and it is earning interest at, say, 5% or 6% which is higher than the inflation rate, then even if you adjust the $30,000 for inflation, it gets to be a smaller and smaller portion of his savings as the years go by. So the CPF members need not be worried about this point. 

    Again, he raises this question, this bogey of whether the CPF Board is able to pay. I have tried to answer him so many times. As I said before, I have managed to convince the Member for Anson who understands, but not the Member for Potong Pasir. He comes up again and again with the same story based on some misconception that his supporters may have given him. I have stated categorically that every member can withdraw all his CPF savings, every cent of it. So where is 

    Coming now to the questions of the Member for Anson. His first question was that the minimum sum set aside can only be withdrawn from age 60. What happens before that? Before that, at age 55, the member can withdraw at least half of his savings. If he has $10,000 or less, he withdraws the whole lot. If he has between $10,000 and $20,000, he withdraws $10,000 and leaves the rest and so on. So the intention of this front-end money is for 

    The Member for Anson wants to know how the CPF Board has invested the CPF members' money. The report of the CPF Board shows this very clearly. The CPF Board collects on the one hand from CPF members and on the other hand lends out the bulk of this money to the Government which then invests it in secure assets, overseas or through other arrangements. The net result is that all these CPF savings have been salted away, invested. So if the Member wants to look at the accounts, it is really very simple. The liabilities are the CPF members' savings; the assets are mostly Government bonds. The money has been placed with the Government, 

    The Member for Anson asks why we have changed our position and are not allowing people to withdraw all their money at 55? My answer is they can withdraw all their money at 55. So the question does not arise. We have not changed our position. We have not imposed on anybody. The majority will have homes. Eventually when all have homes, 100% home ownership, the scheme is reduced to just this Minimum Sum, which is protected by law in the value of the property. If it is a private property, the member can still use the property to raise funds. He is also not 

    The Member for Anson asks for details of investments by GIC. This is something that the Minister for Finance has already answered. To the extent that it is common to release such details, and they have been released. It is not a secret that we have plenty of reserves with GIC earning adequate returns. As far as the CPF members are concerned, they are assured of getting their money back with CPF interest. The CPF Board is paid the same interest that the CPF member gets from the CPF Board. 

    As Members are aware, the Committee of Privileges will be meeting soon to consider a complaint of abuse of privilege against the Member for Anson for making very serious allegations of executive interference in the Judiciary. 

  hoiyungasked for a note. According to the Member for Potong Pasir, the QC said he would have told Mrs Thatcher to go and jump in the lake. So it is unfortunate that the Chief Justice allowed himself to be drawn into these proceedings. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, you were going to speak? 

    On the question of the Member for Potong Pasir just now, I am surprised that he has forgotten what he said only on the 30th of July. He said: 

    Sir, I hope Members will excuse my little excursion into the past. It is to illustrate how disturbed I am at the change in the proceedings in this House since December 1981, with the entry of the Member for Anson. Never before has a Member of this House made so many allegations as he did or uttered defamatory words against 

  hoiyung: What is the point of order, Mr Chiam? 

    Sir, first of all, on clause 2 which now freezes the UK model as it was on the day that Singapore became independent - yes, this is intentional. It is deliberate and it is in line, as I pointed out, with what other Commonwealth countries such as India and Australia have in their constitutions or in their laws applying to Parliament. I think it is quite logical that we should have some model as a starting point. And it is quite logical that we should take the model existing in the UK on the day that we became independent as our starting point. But I think it would be absurd, having become independent and having become a Legislature of an independent sovereign country, to subject ourselves to changes in the UK which may have been caused or prompted by situations, circumstances and reasons, which have nothing to do with Singapore. Why should we be tied to continuing changes in the UK? We are a sovereign nation. We have to use something as a starting point and thereafter we should make our own rules and regulations to govern parliamentary privileges. Surely it cannot be suggested that we here, the elected Members of Parliament, are not capable of making our own rules over time. Yes, as the Member for Anson said, our rules must change with time. But the rules must also take into account the place where the rules apply, the particular conditions of the society. Therefore, I think it is eminently logical and desirable that we should not subject ourselves to changes in the UK after our date of independence. We are quite capable of looking after ourselves. 

  hoiyung: Will you sit down, Mr Chiam? He is not giving way. 

    Sir, the question has been asked, why on a Certificate of Urgency? Why is this Bill being taken through Parliament with all three Readings in one day? I thought I made this clear and I have not tried to hide what the reasons are. I said that the Committee of Privileges will be meeting soon and we want to give the Chairman of the Committee of Privileges all the powers that are needed to ensure that proceedings in the Committee, when they hear the complaint against the Member for Anson, are conducted in such a way that dignity, decorum, orderliness are preserved. It is not intended to limit the Member for Anson. If the Member thinks that the only way he can prove his point or his allegations in the Committee of Privileges is to make further defamatory statements, then obviously he will be restricted. If he does not confine himself to statements that are not defamatory, he will have to face the full penalties set out in the Bill before the House today. 

    The Prime Minister has already said that, as head of the Executive, he will give evidence himself and he is prepared to subject himself to cross-examination. The Member for Anson will also have to give evidence and he will also be cross-examined. We want to arrive at the truth and that is the purpose of rushing this Bill through Parliament so that the conduct of the hearing will be such that nothing will distract us from the process of arriving at the truth. And that, I have made it clear, is the main reason why we presented this Bill on a Certificate of Urgency. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has compared his role in this House with that of the Prime Minister when he was in the Opposition. Mr Speaker, Sir, I leave the Members of this House to come to their own conclusion whether such a comparison is a fair comparison. But, Sir, one point I must stress, yes, the Prime Minister when he was in the Opposition hounded the government. He put every action of theirs under close scrutiny but he never made any statement that defamed anybody. He never committed any breach of privilege. He was never referred to a Committee of Privileges. And neither was he unprepared to repeat anything he said in this House outside this House. 

    Sir, I must say that apart from the Certificate of Urgency, the provisions of the Bill are also partly prompted by the Member for Anson's conduct in Parliament thus far. But while they have been prompted by his conduct, I must hasten to clarify that the 

 real purpose of this Bill is a wider and more important one. The question that we ought to ask ourselves is: what kind of rules ought we to draw for ourselves that will encourage the right type of people to enter politics, seek to enter Parliament and what kind of political processes should we encourage and support in Singapore? Should we have a system of rules, a code of conduct, that attracts men with ideas, with alternatives? Or should we conduct ourselves in such a way and give the impression to the people at large that the only thing required to run for office or to run for Parliament is to come here and make vague statements insinuating wrongdoing, undermine key institutions in the Government and society? And that this is all that is required to make an appeal to the people of Singapore. The Member for Anson, I must say a little bit to my surprise, just now said that it is the function of the Opposition to make defamatory statements. 

  hoiyung: Ask the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    'I and the Workers' Party are determined to change the present system under which the society is managed.' 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Sir, when the Member for Anson first came to this House, he started by raising questions casting doubt on the integrity and honesty of the Government. 

    Democracy is a very new experience for us. We have to chart our own way. We cannot keep quoting what happened in the United Kingdom. We must chart our own way; we must evolve our own system; we must evolve our own rules. Even older societies which have had more experience than us in democracy have found the process of democracy derailed when the wrong type of people got into politics. We must not allow this to happen in Singapore. The purpose of this Bill is not to stifle democracy, but to enable it to work under our particular circumstance. Both the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson say that this Bill is a blow to democracy. 

    I have taken note, Mr Speaker, Sir, of the Member for Anson's offer to repeat his statement about the Chief Justice outside this House. I would also like to know whether he will repeat every statement that he has made in this House that we list as being defamatory. We, on this side, are prepared to repeat outside everything that we said. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, he has come out with his dramatic idea that he will resign from his constituency and the Prime Minister will resign from his constituency and that they will contest to prove whether there is support for this Bill. Sir, we know what the issues are before the House. We know that the Member would love dearly to distract the attention of Singapore and this House from what is ahead. The Prime Minister is quite capable of taking care of his interests. He has full confidence in the Members of this House who belong to the PAP to take care of the interests of this House. But if the Member for Anson is so exercised and so keen and anxious to prove that he has the support of the people to oppose this Bill, by all means, resign from Anson. I can give him the assurance that there will be an early by-election and he can prove his point. 

  hoiyung: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Prime Minister does not have to prove anything. He is not anxious to prove that he has the support of the people of Singapore. That has been proved again and again. But if the Member for Anson is keen and anxious to show that he still has the support of the people of Singapore, by all means proceed with his proposal and I can assure him that there will be an early by-election. We will not deny him by postponing the by-election. We will have an early by-election and he can prove his point. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir asked me to give examples of dishonourable conduct, abuse of privilege and contempt. These are matters that the Committee of Privileges will decide from time to time. But if he wants to have examples, I am sure if he looks up Erskine May in the library there are ample examples for him to look into. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has asked the question of the magnitude of the fine. Why is it that strangers have the same maximum fine as Members? If during the Committee stage, the Member would like to move that the fine on strangers should be at the maximum of more than $50,000 - to $100,000 or $150,000 - I think we all 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir has also asked for clarification on section 20(2), whether it has a retroactive effect. I think I have made that very clear. If a Member were to commit contempt now or make a defamatory statement which is referred to the Committee of Privileges now, ie, before this Bill is passed, then when the Committee of Privileges meets and hears the complaint and, if the Committee of Privileges comes to the conclusion that the Member is guilty, then he will be subject to the punishment as it stands in the law today, which is the Act as it stands today, ie, without this Bill, because the offence was committed before the Bill was passed. But, of course, if in the course of the hearing of the Committee of Privileges he commits further contempt or makes a defamatory statement then he will come under the new law. So that should be clear enough. 

Leong Horn Kee                   Jeyaretnam, J.B.

 of privilege. The Leader himself told my colleague, the Member for Potong Pasir, "You can look it up in Erskine May." Well, Erskine May does not stop in 1962. Erskine May continues up to the present. And so we should know what the present usage of Parliament is. So I ask that the amendment be accepted. 

        Jeyaretnam, J.B.             Leong Horn Kee

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, this particular provision in the Bill has been the subject of considerable comment by Members as well as by me during the Second Reading. I know that the Member for Anson is against this provision. He has given his reasons; I have given my reasons. 

    I really do not have anything more to add except to say this. I am not a lawyer, Mr Speaker, Sir, but as I read it, section 4 of the Act, which the Member for Anson quoted, is not so absolute that you can say anything in Parliament without being liable for what you say. For example, section 30 says, "No person shall ...", and there is a whole list of offences. It is quite clear there, for example, that if in Parliament, or in a Committee of Parliament, false evidence is given, or something false is said, then they are subject to penalties. So obviously section 4 must be modified by other specific exclusions in the Act, and the proposed Bill makes this specific provision that under certain circumstances the privileges accorded by sections 3, 4 and 5 can be suspended. 

    The other point, Mr Speaker, Sir, to make in response to the Member for Anson when he says there is a possible conflict between section 4 and the proposed clause 2 of section 20, is that there is no conflict. There is no conflict because section 4 of the Act is expressly referred to in the new subsection (2). The new proposed subsection (2) expressly refers to section 4 of the existing Act. So there is no conflict. There might be an argument for conflict if the proposed amendment showed a lapse, shall we say, in terms of drafting. But there is no lapse. It is covered. There is express reference to section 4. 

  hoiyung: Come to the point, Mr Chiam. It is getting late, you know? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is getting himself all confused. If what he says is true, then even without this Bill, there is already a conflict between section 17 and section 30, which obviously cannot be so. 

  hoiyung: In answer to the question of the Member for Anson, the Public Service Division of my Ministry carried out a sample survey of 30,000 serving pensionable officers who might be eligible for the option. A stratified random sample of 5,000 officers for the survey was conducted in March 1986 in which the officers were asked to indicate if they would like to opt for the full CPF scheme, reasons for their decision as well as their views on whether offer of the option would be opportune at this time. Just over 3,000 officers responded to the survey and I would just like to recount the main findings briefly. 

    That this Parliament takes note of the Special Report of the Committee of Privileges contained in Paper Parl. 4 of 1986 and resolves that, in relation to the complaints made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Leader of the House, Mr S. Dhanabalan, on 19th March, 1986 and on 30th July, 1986 against the Member for Anson, hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, again I am seeking clarification from the Minister for Law. I see that this motion purely relates to counsel, enabling counsel to appear before the Committee of Privileges. It is silent on the question of witnesses. I had during the proceedings in Parliament when the matters were referred to the Committee of Privileges sought an assurance that all the witnesses that I wanted called would be made available to me for cross-examination. I would like to know whether the Committee of Privileges has taken note of that and has made a resolution to make available all these witnesses for cross-examination by me. I pointed out five persons which I had mentioned before the Commissioner of the Inquiry and then I said there was Mr Glenn Knight and then there were, of course, also the two Magistrates or District 

  Mr Barker: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I cannot speak on behalf of the Committee of Privileges of which I am just one Member. There is a Committee headed by the Speaker as Chairman. There are others, including the Member for Potong Pasir. I am just one Member. But it really depends on the evidence that the Member himself would like to give. If the witnesses are relevant to what is heard, they will be called. We are not afraid of calling witnesses. But if there is no evidence, then no witnesses will be called. But the Member will not be allowed to go on a fishing expedition. I am speaking for myself. I cannot bind the Committee. 

  hoiyung: Once again, Sir, I am not the Committee of Privileges. I am just one Member. To be fair to the Member for Anson, we have got the Member for Potong Pasir in the Committee. These matters will be discussed in Committee and the Committee will decide after hearing evidence what witnesses are relevant, what witnesses should be called. But it is not for me to bind the hands of any Committee of Privileges of which I am only a Member. Let us come to the Committee stage where the Member can make his 

    That this Parliament resolves that, notwithstanding the Standing Orders, at proceedings of the Committee of Privileges (other than the deliberations of the Committee) in relation to the complaints made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Leader of the House, Mr S Dhanabalan, on 19th March, 1986 and on 30th July, 1986 against the Member for Anson, Mr J B Jeyaretnam, admission of strangers for the purpose of 

    That this Parliament resolves that, notwithstanding the Standing Orders, at proceedings of the Committee of Privileges (other than the deliberations of the Committee) in relation to the complaints made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Leader of the House, Mr S Dhanabalan, on 19th March, 1986 and on 30th July, 1986 against the Member for Anson, Mr J B Jeyaretnam, admission of strangers for the purpose of television and other media coverage of the proceedings be allowed, subject to any directions of the Speaker or Chairman of the Committee. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I suggest the Member for Potong Pasir raise the subject with the Prime Minister later on. He will be making a statement. So there will be ample time for questions after he has made the statement. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, before we answer questions, I think we should examine assumptions. First, I am not sure that investments are pouring into Taiwan. I am not sure what the Member for Potong Pasir means by "pouring in". Taiwan has 16 million people, probably more than that. If we make a per capita comparison, or one based on the size of the GDP, I think we are not doing badly. Secondly, I do not know what the basis of the Member's statement is - that Taiwanese wages are almost as high as Singapore wages. The last time I looked at them, there was a very significant differential. I do not have the numbers 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would be grateful to the Member for Potong Pasir if he would make any proposal which could either prevent, check or make detection of corruption by any Minister or any MP or any public servant easier. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, we face a very natural problem of privacy. I am not against publication because there can be no damage to anyone. But I speak from experience that for the same reasons that the Member for Potong Pasir does not want to disclose 

    I do not think much purpose is served today by a debate on my statement on Teh Cheang Wan. But if the Member for Potong Pasir believes that this is a method of stopping corruption and an effective one, let us debate it. He can file a motion. One of our MPs will second it. We can have a full debate. Today I suggest he confines his searching questions to this particular case. I have said that in this particular case no extra assets have been disclosed. He was an able man. There were no secret bank accounts. There were no assets. 

  hoiyung: Do I understand the Member for Potong Pasir right, from 28th November to 19th January? 

    I come to the Member for Potong Pasir. He mentioned minimizing disruption in jobs. I have already replied to this. Perhaps I should say in addition that it is important also for the reservists to minimize disruption in the reservist unit training which he is bound to do. In other words, it is not just a matter of convenience to the single reservist whether or not he comes back at a time which fits him but also a matter of whether, by being absent, a reservist actually hinders the training and the entire series of activities which his team, his platoon or his battalion needs to go through. If the reservist is a battalion commander and absents himself, it is not just in-camp training which is disrupted. All 800 or 900 soldiers in his battalion will have their training affected and their entire in-camp period wasted if the battalion commander is not there to take them through their paces. Therefore, we need to balance the two. 

    The Member for Queenstown in his own inimitable way has found the Copyright Bill to be a useful platform to talk about a wide variety of things which have got nothing to do with copyright; from Aids virus to gold fish, to clocks whether they are digital or grandfather clocks. Well, he has to make his point. But in case anybody feels that the Copyright Bill has got anything to do with digital clocks or Aids virus, let me assure him that it has got nothing to do with any of these. When he raised the general question as to whether the copyright legislation is going to hinder the bright Singaporeans from engaging in reverse engineering - "reverse engineering" not in its derogatory sense - I would say that the answer given by the Member for Potong Pasir is correct, that this has got nothing to do with that and it does not impede and will not hinder such development in Singapore because a different branch of law, particularly the patent law, governs the subject matter which he is referring to. He also asked what happens to the businesses which have invested thousands of dollars. I think the point made by the Member for Chong Boon is probably a correct approach to be taken in those cases. 

  Dr Koh Lam Son (Telok Blangah): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I be allowed to spend 5 minutes to speak on the amendment to the Motion standing in the name of the Member for Anson? 

    Sir, yesterday as I listened to what was said by both Members of the Opposition, the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir, I was left in no doubt that both these Members are not genuinely 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that he has tried his best to help retrenched workers who approached him. But did he really? How did he do it? What was his success? He did not tell us. Did he refer them to the relevant authorities where jobs can be found? If he did not, then I suggest that he is guilty of neglecting the retrenched workers who went to see him. And what are the immediate problems? He has not told us. Was the immediate problem the difficulty in finding another job? Or was it real financial hardship? 

  hoiyung: He will not allow you. Mr Chiam, please sit down! 

    Sir, I remember that he has promised that he would donate 25% of his MP's allowance to charity. But to this day he has not done so. Sir, we PAP Members believe in the sincerity of the Acting Minister for Community Development when he donated half his salary to charity. Not only that, he is a man of his word. He said it and he did it. But the Member for Potong Pasir has promised 25% of his MP's allowance to charity and he has not done so. Maybe now is the time for him to use his donation to help the retrenched workers in Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, he has scoffed at the Member for Whampoa when he mentioned that he has a small welfare fund in his constituency to help those who are in need. At least the Member for Whampoa is doing something right now to help his retrenched constituents. What does the Member for Potong Pasir do for his retrenched constituents? That he will go to Parliament and blame it on the Government and the problems will be solved? We will wait for the answer from the Acting Minister for Labour on the issue of the 113 daily-rated employees who were retrenched. 

    But what was the Member for Anson's real interest in their plight? Did he really care for their welfare and the loss of livelihood when he made a hue and cry on the alleged inability of the Government to find them alternative employment? Or was he only interested in making the Government look guilty before the people? 

  hoiyung: Has he spoken to these people? Sir, I would like to submit to you that what has been said by these two Members in the Opposition is that they are here to mislead the workers and to frustrate the Government's plans to help workers, for their own political interest. I therefore very firmly reject the amendment standing in the name of the Member for Anson. 

 the House to reject the amendment proposed by the Member for Anson. 

    But before the two Opposition Members get too excited over what I am saying, perhaps I should now point out to this House the difference between what they are trying to say and what we the PAP Backbenchers are pointing out. Sir, I am very much against the accusations which have been made yesterday by the Member for Anson when he said that the economy has been mismanaged. Sir, I take a very strong exception to the word "mismanagement". It is always easy to point a finger with the benefit of hindsight. Let us be honest with ourselves. Most of the policies have served us well in the past when conditions were different. I am one of those who have said so on many occasions that if policies have become outdated, or they no longer serve us well because conditions are now different, then we should review and make the changes when necessary. And that is what the Government has done in setting up the Economic Committee, and I believe this Government will constantly do that, ie, review policies, for that is the hallmark of any dynamic and capable government. But to say that the Government has mismanaged the economy for so many years is an untruth. It shows the Opposition Members to be the opportunists that they are. 

  hoiyung: Well, if the Member for Anson is a great champion of the workers, let him find the work for these workers first. If he fails, we will take it up. 

 workers expressed in the Economic Committee's Report so clearly and succinctly? So the Economic Committee is accused of having forgotten the plight of the retrenched. I say, "Look again, Member for Anson!" But there is none so blind who will not see. 

    Finally, may I just reply to the hon. Member for Serangoon Gardens who was replying to the Member for Potong Pasir about muzzling University students. Perhaps he has forgotten that last year when the Political Association brought out a paper, they were told they could not publish it, and it was handed over to the Students' Union. Well, if that is not muzzling student activity, I would like to know what is? 

    The Minister of State for Defence and Trade and Industry (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Speaker, Sir, I have an amendment under Subhead LE-01. As it concerns the University and this has been raised by the Member for Anson, perhaps I will speak now. 

    I would like the Minister for Education to confirm that it is in fact the policy of this Government to educate all our citizens to their maximum potential. We have stated this many times. We have explained this in this House, but perhaps it has not been fully understood, and should be stated again, I say this particularly in view of the suggestion yesterday from the Member for Potong Pasir that we could get more university graduates in Singapore simply by having a second university, and then we would automatically double the number of graduates and the amount of talent available. And the suggestion today from the Member for Anson, that because we have foreign students in the University, therefore Singaporeans are deprived of places. 

    The foreign students do not displace Singaporeans. But the Member for Anson speaks as if every foreign student there is depriving a Singaporean of a place. It is not so. It is not so because we have places for everybody. It is not out of largesse or out of a sense of generosity and humanity that we give places away to foreign students. Each foreign student is a worthwhile investment because when he comes, he brings ability, he brings talent. He learns in the University. Our students benefit from the wider exposure and from the mix of different students, students from different backgrounds, in the University. And many of the foreign students thereafter stay on and contribute to our economy, and contribute to this society. 

    I do not quarrel with Dr Winsemius. I merely ask whether the Member for Potong Pasir speaks because he believes it or because somebody else says it. There is reason to doubt because, not very many days ago, he said, "I believe it because the Prime Minister says so." And today he believes it because Dr Winsemius says so. What next? 

  hoiyung: Perhaps the Member for Anson will point out in our Government publications where we have used the words "junior Minister"? 

    Sir, let me go on to a more serious point. The Member for Teck Ghee, in response to a point made by the Member for Anson, has asked me to confirm that the admission of foreign students to the University will not limit the opportunities for Singaporean students to take up tertiary education and that, in fact, this policy of admitting a limited number of foreign students to the University is in the best interest of Singapore. Sir, I hardly need to add anything more to what the Member for Teck Ghee has already said most eloquently and, I would say, most pertinently. We do not admit foreign students into the NUS or into the NT( simply because we are a generous nation with overwhelming largesse to spread beyond our shores. In fact, I believe the Member for Anson has always criticized the fact that we are a parsimonious Government. 

    As regards the percentage which the Member for Anson has asked, I stated in 1981 that I would regard a reasonable percentage for the University for foreign students to be of the order of 20%. And I would say that I make no apologies for stating the fact that I believe that this is a reasonable percentage. If we require more places for our own students at the University, then I think the solution would be to expand the NUS rather than to exclude foreign students and let our students grow up with closed minds, without the opportunity, as I have said, to interact with other students. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has suggested, quoting Dr Winsemius, that we should have a second university in order to provide more places. Sir, I would like to inform him that we do have a second university, and that is, the Nanyang Technological Institute. At present, it is affiliated to the NUS but in due course, we hope to develop it into a technical university, which is what Singapore will need in future years. 

    Finally, Sir, I come to the point raised by the Member for Anson regarding the Second Language requirement at 'AO' level which a student who, I presume, has already been admined provisionally to the University, is required to fulfil before he is allowed to receive his degree. The reason why he has to fulfil this requirement is because this is part of the entry requirements for admission to the NUS. It is because we know that a number of students may have difficulty in meeting the Second Language requirement at the pre-U level that we have given them the opportunity to be admitted into the NUS so that they can fulfil this requirement while they are doing their courses at the NUS. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not believe that we should follow the policies of other countries, whether Australia or England, where these policies are, in my opinion, wrong. I think that it is detrimental to the interest of the two countries, Australia and England, which the Member for Anson has mentioned, that they should adopt this policy of restricting the entry of foreign students into their country. It is not in the long term interest of these two countries - 

  Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir should try and keep awake in this Chamber. I know the speeches are sometimes dull, but still, when one is here, one is expected to pay attention. I did not say, Sir, that every student who wants to go to the University can go to the University. 

  hoiyung: No, Sir. What I said was, every student who is able to benefit from a University course and who can qualify to go to the University, we will find a place for him. There is a vast difference between a student who wants to go to the University and the student who qualifies. I am sure that the Member for Potong Pasir can understand the difference. 

 so on. He quoted statistics from the Goh Keng Swee Report in 1978. The answer, Sir, is very simple. And if the Member for Potong Pasir will not pay attention in this House, he should at least pay attention to manners outside this House. The reason why we have not been able to produce as many University graduates as in other countries and as we would like lies in the fact that we do not have, in the past years, students of the required quality and ability and training who could benefit from a University education. And the reason, Sir, why we do not have these students is because there were severe flaws in our education system. 

  hoiyung: This is what Dr Goh has been striving over the last six years to remedy, with the help of Members in this House, and occasionally with the help of the Member for Anson. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, with regard to special schools for disabled children, the Member for Anson yesterday said that nothing much has been done for the children from the Singapore Association for the Deaf, Since I am associated with the Association, I would like to tell the House that the Ministry of Community Development has given a grant of $19,400 to the Singapore Association for the Deaf to purchase audio-visual equipment to enable these children to learn better. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson asked the question about Home Economics and Technical Studies for Secondary 1 and 2. Sir, I think the Member will agree with me that with the family structure that has evolved in Singapore, more and more of our families are small families, insular families, comprising parents with two or perhaps three children living in a housing board flat. And the situation is also evolving in which families have to manage the care of their children and domestic affairs very much of their own. Notwithstanding the question about foreign maids and so on, the vast majority of Singaporean families do not have maids and have to manage the home by themselves. They have to bring up the children themselves. So we feel that, with this family pattern that is emerging in our society, there is every purpose and every need to ensure that young people leaving school should have some knowledge about child care and child development as well as about home management. We have asked that girls, in particular, should acquaint themselves with Home Economics knowledge, and when we have enough resources, namely, teachers, we would like to extend this even to the boys. I personally feel that this knowledge of home management, child development, child care is so basic to family life that we should extend this knowledge as widely as possible, not just to girls but also to the boys. I am sure the hon. Member would not disagree with me on this point. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): I know, Mr Speaker. I am going to withdraw my amendment, but before I withdraw the amendment, since there are a few minutes left, could I just take the opportunity to do two things. One is to comment very briefly on what the Member for Anson has said; unfortunately he is not here. The other is to pay a tribute to the Minister for Education. 

    In regard to the first matter from the Member for Anson - actually I would prefer if he was here, but unfortunately he is not here - he talks about the lowering of the standard of English. This is a very subjective matter. Of course, even in England they talk about the lowering of standard of English today and in many places. We have got universal education to cater for all Singaporeans. When we compare the school population today with the school population 20 years ago, where only a minority were able to go to school, of course, today when this quantitative element is involved, we can always pick a small group and use that as a yardstick when we talk about standards. I think he used a group of students in his constituency, the people who wanted some help in tuition, as a yardstick. He made mention to us that he gave tuition. I do not know whether he was trying to make political capital out of his statement that he gave tuition, apart from handling Meet-the-People sessions. 

 the wrong thing! It is a serious matter. It is not meant as a flippant remark, but I think it is a serious matter. When we talk about private tuition, there must also be qualitative control. Anyway, I could go on, but since the Member for Anson is not here, I do not want to be unfair to him and go further on this. 

    I also want to take the time now to say a few words in tribute to the Minister for Education. After all, if he could earn a compliment from the Member for Anson, I think it is only logical that from the PAP Backbenchers, and when I say so, I say it not only saying on my behalf but also on behalf of my fellow PAP Backbenchers, but if any PAP Backbencher disagrees he can dissociate himself from me. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, if I may make my point of clarification now. I do not wish to dwell on the substance of the Member for Anson's comments because the Minister for Health and the Minister of State will deal with them. 

    I merely wish to ask the Member for Anson whether he possibly sees any contradiction between his arguments this morning when he was belabouring and berating the Minister for Education for indeed heavily subsidizing the education of non-Singaporeans in University, and the Minister for Health this afternoon, who is the same person, for subsidizing this time too little, or rather not enough, the medical expenses for non-citizens in Singapore? 

    To her other point about remissions, I would like to take that in conjunction with the fears that the Government is not providing adequate medical care and at a low enough cost to the low income group. This happens to be a favourite topic of the Member for Anson, and I would like to disabuse the Member of his frequently repeated criticisms. Let me first reassure him, as I have done about two weeks ago, that no Singaporean will ever be deprived of proper and adequate medical care. Our Class C and Class B wards are not only very heavily subsidized but safeguards are also built in to ensure that, for major surgical operations, there is a limit placed on how much such patients would be charged. 

    I will now take the points brought up by the Member for Anson. In terms of the example brought up by the Member regarding the recent appearance of an article in the papers whereby a person claimed that he could not get proper medical treatment here and he could not afford the proper medical care here and could not afford the drugs, and he had to go back to 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I be permitted to say a few words on this question of a second drug store in the Singapore General Hospital. Sir, the Member for Anson in his usual manner has cast a slur - 

    Nobody directs any patient to buy his drug from anyone. In the past he would get his drugs from the Government pharmacy. Now he has a choice. He can either buy it from the Government pharmacy or he can buy it from the private pharmacy in the hospital. There was no intention or idea whatsoever of creating business for any private individual. And I am surprised that the Member for Anson should, instead of asking an honest question, ask it in such a way as to create an impression in the public mind that somebody has some vested interest in the pharmacy. I think if he is gentleman enough, he should tender an apology to this House for having cast a slur that somebody could have benefitted from having a private pharmacy in the hospital. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I think we are all aware of the technique employed by the Opposition Member for Anson, both in this House and outside the House, in casting a vague smear on the integrity of the system. He should know that under our system any premises to be tendered out, and I believe even without knowing the facts, that if a slot is to be let out to a private pharmacy it must be on a tender basis. 

  Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam: Sir, may I make a point? The Member for Anson just now asked for particulars of the letting out of the pharmacy at the Singapore General Hospital to a certain family. I agree with the First Deputy Prime Minister that the manner in which he has asked his question is calculated to cast a slur on the Government, in that he implied there is some wrongdoing in the letting out of this pharmacy and that the Government has something to hide. 

  hoiyung: Again, Sir, the Member for Anson is trying to cast 

  hoiyung: Mr Chairman, Sir, at the moment there is no law to prevent Singaporeans from going to Johor Baru to buy petrol. As far as the lead content of petrol in Malaysia is concerned, the Member for Potong Pasir is right. At the moment the lead content of petrol in Malaysia is 0.84 grammes per litre, which was the lead content of petrol in Singapore five years ago. But I have been made to understand by my counterpart, the Minister for Environment in Malaysia, that Malaysia wo will be bringing down the lead content to 0.4 grammes per litre with effect from July this year. 

    On the request by the Member for Anson for a room for senior citizens, is it a room? 

  hoiyung: No, I am not aware of it. I suggest that the Member for Anson write to me and I will look into it. 

    Before I proceed, I must ask the Member for Anson whether or not it is true that he, in his capacity as an advocate and solicitor, did take up the case of a CISCO woman constable in his professional capacity in 1985? The CISCO woman constable was dismissed by CISCO from service for disobedience to orders in that she failed to turn up on four different occasions as instructed. She was dismissed. And the Member for Anson, as an advocate and solicitor, took up her case and sent an appeal to the Commissioner of Police. The main issue in that appeal was precisely whether or not a CISCO constable could or could not be required to work or report for duty on a rest day. If I may quote from the statement of appeal which he, as an advocate and solicitor, sent to the Commissioner of Police. I quote from page 2: 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, twice in 1982, this House had occasion to ask the Member for Anson to explain why he failed to disclose a pecuniary interest on matters which he raised in this House. On one occasion, on 27th July 1982, you, Sir, ruled at the end of the discussion that he should have declared his interest and, upon your ruling, he so accepted the ruling and said that he was sorry that he did not tell the House that he had previously acted for the woman and that his firm had written a letter. 

  hoiyung: Sir, let me finish. The Member for Anson has taken up this case in his capacity as an advocate and solicitor. Now, he has filed a question which relates to the very point which he raised with the Commissioner of Police in his appeal. The Commissioner of Police rejected the appeal. 

    Sir, I next come to the Member for Potong Pasir. He has pointed an accusing finger at the Trade Development Board's efforts to promote tourism. He said that tourists are not coming, the hotel rooms will be empty, there will be a surplus of hotel rooms. Sir, this is not new. I myself have said so in this House just a few days ago that the expected occupancy rate of our hotels will decline in the next few years, and it is expected to drop to 50% by 1988. Sir, it is not 40% as the Member for Potong Pasir has said earlier today. If he wishes to quote me, the very least he can do is to quote me correctly and accurately. Sir, he also said that tourist arrivals fell during the period 1980 to 1985. This is a gross untruth and a distortion. Sir, he should have studied closely the Report of the Economic Committee. May I refer him to page 194, Table 21-2. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, this morning he said there was a drop. I am trying to correct what he said. Noticing that his own mistake has been exposed, he promptly jumped up to seek a clarification and to amend what he has said. But he did not deny that he said this morning that there was a drop in tourist arrivals. And I am trying to tell him that on page 194 of the Report of the Economic Committee, Table 21-2, shows very clearly that between 1980 and 1985, there was an increase in tourist arrivals. The number of tourists who came to Singapore in 1980, Sir, I quote, "2,562,100", and in 1985, "$3,031,000". There was an increase in the number of tourists coming to Singapore during that period. In fact, 1985 was a bumper year. We exceeded 3 million tourists. What has dropped was, in fact, the growth rate of tourist arrival. If he had said so this morning, there would have been much less confusion. As usual, the Member for Potong Pasir seems to be 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir's speech is significant only in one regard, and that is, it contains a great number of factual errors. Tourist arrival is not the only one. He said that Construction represents one-third of the Gross Domestic Product. Sir, this is far from the truth. If only he had spent $14 like the Member for Kaki Bukit, to buy a copy of the Annual Economic Survey, he would have noted from Table A (1.2) that construction contributed only $4 billion out of $35 billion worth of GDP for 1985. If he puts $4 billion above $35 billion, he will come to the conclusion, I hope, that it is only 11.4% and not 33.3%. So I do not wish to belabour the point on the Member for Potong Pasir's inability to grasp basic arithmetic. 

  The Chairman: He is not giving way, Mr Chiam. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: You had your chance. You have had your say this morning, and if you have made a mistake, are you going to retract it now? Sir, I would only recommend that the Member for Potong Pasir study his tables and statistics carefully before coming to this House to make speeches. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir asked for the accounts of the Petrochemical Corporation of Singapore. He said that it is losing money, and he insinuated that the Government must have something to hide. If he wants to know the - 

  Mr Chiam See Chiam: We want the accumulated loss. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, the Member for Whampoa also raised the question of cost effectiveness of the EDB joint industry training centres. In his usual eloquence, he has dropped a few gems of wisdom here and there which the Member for Potong Pasir hastily picked up. So the Member for Potong Pasir rose to the occasion and said, "There is something wrong with our training programmes. Why isn't there a better apprenticeship scheme?" He is implying that something is wrong with our efforts to train industrial workers' vocational skills. 

 promote direct trade. But we cannot allow our interests to be hurt. In this respect, I do not take seriously the proposition from the Member for Potong Pasir that the correct approach to such problems is to humble ourselves, bow deeply and see to it that we offend nobody, so that people will be generous to us and we will get into no trouble whatsoever. I presume that that was the intention of the remarks made by the Member for Potong Pasir this morning. 

    It is our job as the elected representatives of the people of Singapore to defend the interests of the people of Singapore. And where the interests have to be defended tenaciously, we will do so. Where we must fight for our rights, we will do so. Where further steps have to be taken in order to safeguard our position, that also will be done. I took it from this morning's remarks that the Member for Potong Pasir was not at all in favour of any of these actions and that he would much prefer us to bow deeply and apologize. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Mr Speaker, Sir, earlier on when I made reference to the protectionist policies of countries like Malaysia and the problems that we are faced with, I expected support from all Members in this House. But instead the Member for Potong Pasir attacked me and stated that Singapore should humble itself and accept all these protectionist policies. Therefore, I consulted my colleagues and I was shown this particular report in the Utusan Malaysia. In fact, it was also published in the Utusan Melayu of the same date on page 7 that there was such a meeting and there was financial support. These are not my allegations, Sir. These are allegations reported by Bernama newsagency from Malaysia, and I suppose it is a reputable newsagency. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, if I may continue. I am happy to hear that the Member for Potong Pasir suggested we humble ourselves purely out of conviction and not at all out of personal interest. Nevertheless, we have no intention of doing so. It is our duty to protect our traders and we shall do whatever is necessary. 

  The Minister of State for Education (Dr Tay Eng Soon): Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker, for allowing me to catch your eye. I regret I was I unable to catch the Chairman's eye just now to reply to the Member for Anson. But, alas, the Member is missing from the Chamber now. When he sought the information, I wanted to give it to him but he was not prepared for it. The same thing happened last Friday when I wanted to reply to him but he left the Chamber before I had the chance to do so. 

    Sir, the voluntary organizations are doing an excellent job in running these schools. They bring to the schools their own expertise, their own enthusiasm. And by being autonomous, they are able to shape the syllabus, the curriculum, which is very different from that of the normal school system, to meet the special needs of these children. I think there is an advantage in that they are autonomous and able to tailor the educational needs to fit these children. And we should think very carefully about coming in to take over these schools and running them as suggested by the Member for Anson. The approach we have taken is a better one. We should let these schools be autonomous, free to run their own programmes, and to provide them with as much support as we can in the way of teachers and funds. That is the approach that the Government is taking over this matter. As I say, I regret that the Member for Anson is not here. Anyway, I would like to say this for the record. 

  Prof. S. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, Members will recall that at our sitting on 4th March, the Member for Potong Pasir asked the Prime Minister "whether he will call a public inquiry to get to the bottom of (what he termed) the Teh Cheang Wan affair and to make recommendations to prevent further corruption at high places." The Prime Minister said that the Government is ready to have a public inquiry into any matter of public interest so that there can be no question of any cover-up. The Prime Minister repeatedly asked the Member to spell out the terms of reference. It was only after the lunch adjournment that the Member read out his proposed terms, although he said that he had it all the time since that morning. 

    Sir, this instrument reproduces the revised terms of reference submitted by the Member for Potong Pasir in their entirety as terms of reference No.(2) and No.(3). The instrument also records the fact that the Member had undertaken to lead in evidence (the words used by him) relating to those said terms. 

    The Government had expected the Member for Potong Pasir to refine his terms to inquire into the adequacy and efficacy of CPIB's investigations. He has not done this. The Government cannot allow these doubts on the effectiveness of investigations of CPIB to stand unchallenged. Accordingly, before proceeding to investigate the terms of reference which the Member has spelt out, the Commission will first address itself to the first term of reference, and I read: 

 Deputy Public Prosecutor will lead evidence to show that CPIB carried out its duties effectively and properly. The Director of CPIB will give evidence under this term. After this term of reference has been addressed, the Commission will then address the terms requested by the Member for Potong Pasir. With regard to those terms, he will, as he had undertaken, bring forth his witnesses and lead in evidence. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I may touch on the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. He commented on the first term of reference. I have explained the reasons why this first term is necessary. I have referred to certain statements that he had made which to any reasonable person reading those statements must imply that the CPIB was less than thorough in its investigations. I am glad to hear him this morning that he did not intend to say that the CPIB did not investigate properly. But I take it that he does not object to this additional term because the Instrument of Appointment incorporates all that he wanted and the Commission's terms of reference will not exclude whatever he wanted. The Instrument includes his terms and more, which is necessary for the reasons I have given. 

 sion. There are certain preliminary matters which will have to be done. There will have to be an advertisement, a public advertisement calling for members of the public who have information or representations to make on any of the terms to submit their views within a specified time, and this will be done. I am sure the Commission will organize its sittings in such a way that all the preliminary work which has to be done and perhaps even requests by the Member for Potong Pasir for whatever information that he needs is obtained by him before they begin to sit. I assume that this will be so. As far as the Government is concerned, we also do not want this to be a rush job and the Commission should take its time with all the preliminary matters before they conduct their public sittings. 

    Then he expressed the hope that the lawyers being busy people, those lawyers I take it from the private sector, I take it including himself, who will be involved in the Commission's proceedings, will be given adequate remuneration. Here, too, Sir, I would like to point out this is not something within my authority to decide. I will refer him to section 7(g) of the Inquiry Commissions Act where the Commissioners have the power to award any person who has attended any meeting of the Commissioners, including interpreters and so forth, such sums as in the opinion of the Commissioners may have been reasonably incurred by him by reason of such attendance. Of course, I do not know how the Commissioners will exercise their discretion. It is up to the Member for Potong Pasir to make a submission to the Commission and it is up to the Commission to exercise its discretion. I understand that in recent Commissions of Inquiry, like the Hotel New World, some of the people in the private sector who gave expert 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I may join in the debate here. Sir, as I understand the issue, the question of the Commission of Inquiry did not arise from any Member of the Government; but as a result of the suggestion or the proposal by the Member for Potong Pasir, we now have this Commission of Inquiry. And as I understand it, it is going to take time, it is going to involve a lot of people, so a lot of public money is going to be involved in the process. 

    I was glad to hear that the Member for Potong Pasir is indifferent whether he is going to be paid or not. Sir, we all recognize that, as Members of Parliament elected by the people to represent the interests of the people, we ought to give of ourselves to the public. We are paid an allowance for that purpose and, therefore, if we choose to raise matters concerning public interest, there is no reason why we 

 should expect additional payment. What I would like is an undertaking from the Member for Potong Pasir that he will gladly give his services free. In other words, even if the money is offered to him for his time and services, he will refrain from taking it. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, perhaps I could urge the Member for Whampoa and others who are intending to speak that we should not have a long debate on this. I have said that it is up to the Commission to decide whether it wants to exercise its discretion to make any payments. The Member for Potong Pasir has made his point and I think these are matters which should be taken up in the Commission of Inquiry. 

    Two small points. Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir said that it is the Government which must do the job on this Commission of Inquiry with regard to his terms of reference. I think it is necessary for me to place on record who wanted this Commission of Inquiry. If we refresh our memory of the debate on the 4th March, it was the Member for Potong Pasir who wanted it. The Prime Minister made it clear that, as far as the Government was concerned, we had nothing to hide. But it was not the Government which wanted the Commission of Inquiry; he wanted the Commission. The Government responded that if he wanted the Commission, we will agree to the establishment of the Commission, and he agreed to lead evidence. I think we should get that clearly on the record. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I did not get the response to my question. I would like an explicit commitment on the part of the Member for Potong Pasir that he will refuse any remuneration for his work before this Commission. And I would like to make an additional suggestion to him, that since he represents the Singapore Democratic Party, perhaps his Party can bear the expenses for the entire Commission. 

    Sir, I next move on to the Member for Potong Pasir. He says that the maximum fine of $2,000 is excessive. May I point out to him that this maximum fine will only be imposed by the courts. The problem of illegal parking on road side- tables and open turfed spaces is such that there must be adequate deterrents, otherwise owners of cars or drivers of these vehicles would continuously flout the law with the expectation that they may be able to get away with it. I think a sufficiently hefty deterrent is necessary, and in this case the court should have the power to impose such a fine. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir says that it is a technical offence. "You waive it aside. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir says that "nobody gets hurt". But such illegally parked vehicles create inconvenience for other road and park users. They can also become a hazard to park users. Imagine a road running alongside a public park with motor vehicles parked haphazardly on the turfed areas. People who want to cross the road would have to run the risk of getting knocked down by vehicles coming along the road because the drivers may not be able to see the pedestrian clearly because of the parked vehicles. So besides the actual cost incurred of repairing the damage to the turfed areas, there is also this question of obstruction and inconvenience and hazard to park and road users. 

    I do not understand the Member for Potong Pasir when he says that people who parked half on the road side-table, and half on the road way are exhibiting a social conscience. If it is marked on the road that there should be no parking along the roadside, it means that any vehicle parked there poses a hazard to other road users. If there is a road side-table there, as I have said earlier, vehicles parked on the road side-table also pose a hazard to pedestrians. Therefore, by parking a vehicle half on the side-table and half on the road, the driver of the vehicle is jeopardizing two groups of people - the pedestrian and the drivers on the road. By what stretch of imagination does the Member for Potong Pasir arrive at this conclusion that they are therefore exhibiting social conscience? 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir raised a call for more flexibility in implementing tree planting and landscaping requirements on development proposals. I am sure the Parks and Recreation Department are open minded. If a developer is able to prepare a proposal for landscaping and tree planting which is far superior to any requirements that the Department has initially suggested, I am quite certain that the Department is prepared to consider such an alternative proposal. 

    Sir, may I now address the points raised by the Member for Bo Wen. He asked whether it is necessary to have a maximum fine of $2,000 imposed on people who parked on road side-tables and open turfed areas. I believe I have answered that when I addressed the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I fail to see the logic of the Member for Potong Pasir. He says that in many private estates the roads are narrow and there are no white lines along the road. That means they should be allowed to park. If they are allowed to park and the driver has a space to park, why does he still choose to park half the car on the road side-table? I would suggest that in such cases the offender should be doubly penalized! Having got the space to park legally on the road, if he chooses to damage the road side-table then he deserves extra punishment for that, Sir. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Yes, Mr Chiam. There are only two minutes left. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, please do not interrupt. Please continue, General Lee. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, while he may claim that he is an orphan, the people at large will be deprived of the basic needs, food, housing, education and the lot. I have mentioned before during the Ministerial visit that we are lucky to have bread and butter. Basically, politics is about bread and butter. Some countries have more bread and more butter. Some more bread, less butter. Some less bread, less butter but with a lot of jam. But this is not the kind of jam Mr Chiam and myself take in the morning for breakfast. 

  hoiyung: It is a political jam followed by economic jam. And, finally, it is social jam. But surprisingly, the guns never jammed. The shooting never stops. It never happens here, Mr Chiam. And the killings never end. 

  hoiyung: Hearsay. It is too bad the Member for Potong Pasir depends on hearsay. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, are you giving way? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I will ask the Member for Potong Pasir to name the person. 

  hoiyung: I am not saying "no such person". I am asking the Member for Potong Pasir, because he has made an allegation, to name the person who made such an allegation. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you withdrawing your remark or you want it to stay? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, what I am saying is that there is no such thing. The union members were not paid a single cent to attend the rally. The Member for Potong Pasir said he was told by a union member that they were paid to attend the rally. Then he had better verify that; confirm it. Name the person or withdraw that statement. Will he agree? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, this raises a very serious point about privilege and breach of privilege. All hon. Members here enjoy immunity from legal proceedings and we have freedom of speech here. But that does not mean we can come here and repeat hearsay uttered to us by persons outside. A Member cannot come here and say that Mr A said so-and-so in this House is corrupt, for example. That will be a breach and abuse of our privilege. So the Second Deputy Prime Minister is perfectly right in asking the Member for Potong Pasir to either substantiate his allegation or to withdraw it. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir does not withdraw it, his statement stands on the record. He should substantiate it. If he is not able to do it, then he should withdraw it. He cannot let the statement based on hearsay stand on the record and choose to withdraw it another day. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, do you give way? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, Mr Chiam. You have gone into extra time. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has proposed as an amendment - 

  The Minister for Trade and Industry (BG Lee Hsien Loong): Mr Deputy Speaker, I do not want to make a speech. But I think the Member for Potong Pasir has raised some questions which call for some questions in return. 

    The Member has suggested that we do not have a basis for what we have done against the American diplomats and officials, that the statutory declarations which have been sworn by Patrick Seong and Francis Seow were untrue and were extracted under duress and therefore cannot be relied upon. I should point out that in making this allegation, the Member for Potong Pasir is saying something which even the Americans have not said. Not even the Americans have denied what is in the statutory declarations. The Member for Potong Pasir is now doing so. I would, 

  Dr Lau Teik Soon (Serangoon Gardens): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is not here. But I would like to make a point right from the beginning that it is very revealing that in his speech he has quoted faithfully and quite eloquently the statements of the US government. Yet, as a Singaporean, he has not taken into account the statements by our Government. In fact, he has raised questions doubting the credibility of the Government's statements. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has moved an amendment rejecting the recent action of the Government against, according to him, alleged subversive activities of Marxists, the US government and foreign interest groups. Why has the Government taken this action to detain the Marxist conspirators? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir should realize that the activities of the Marxist conspirators are but another episode in the long protracted struggle of the Marxists and the Communists to destabilize Singapore and Malaysia, to create chaos, strife and eventually take over control. The present tactics are part of the relentless drive on the part of the Communists to achieve power in Singapore. What have been their strategies? Very briefly, between 1948 and 1960, it was the phase of the open armed rebellion. Then, between 1960 and 1968, the period of propaganda and reorganization. And since 1968, the return to the united front but this time focussing on professionals. 

    Sir, in his amendment, the Member for Potong Pasir also rejected the recent action of the Government against what he calls "foreign interest groups". I suppose he refers to the human rights organizations. May I ask him and I hope he will reply subsequently: is he championing the self-appointed mission of these human rights groups to change the world into the image of the United States? Does he not know that when he rejects the Government's action against Hendrickson and company, he implicitly supports this group of people? So for his benefit, Sir, and others, allow me to cite an example of a human rights group in the United States to illustrate clearly what Hendrickson and his fellow human rights activists in the State Department have in mind. 

    Sir, I wonder whether the Member for Potong Pasir in moving his amendment wants Singapore to be like the Philippines. Does he really want us to be like the Philippines? According to the human rights activists and people like Hendrickson, the Philippines political system has evolved to be like that of the US. So it is regarded as the best in South East Asia. But they have not considered other factors, the threats to the Philippines, the Communist insurrection, the Muslim rebellion in the South, the urban guerrilla warfare, the insecurity in the capital. What about the social and economic problems in the Philippines such as unemployment, housing and the low standard of living? And in South Korea, which is graded better than Singapore, there are student riots. Even as we speak, there are student riots, demonstrations and political squabbles among the politicians, not to mention the anti-American marches and the assaults on American buildings. For that sort of activities, South Korea has been graded a better political state than Singapore. 

    Sir, the Freedom House table is clearly very biased, narrowly based and highly subjective. We have to reject it completely. But we should note that such an assessment of states in South East Asia is used as evidence by very reputable organizations in the United States and I should refer to this in a moment. I hope the Member for Potong Pasir, after reading the table and what I have just said, has been enlightened about the human rights groups. These Americans, like Hendrickson and other human rights activists, are not concerned with political liberty. They are not concerned with political stability. They prefer political dissent, confrontation politics, weak government and anti-establishment movements. You are graded down if you score low in all these criteria. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir does not seem to understand, and although my colleagues in Parliament have said it so often, that we Singaporeans want to be ourselves. Why does he oppose the 

    In conclusion, Sir, may I say that the Member for Potong Pasir has been misguided by moving this amendment by his political guru, whoever he is. I hope he will see where he has gone wrong and take remedial action. The least he can do, Sir, is to withdraw his unacceptable amendment to the motion standing in the name of the Member for Braddell Heights. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise in support of the original motion and reject the amendment proposed by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Considering the eloquent defence put up by the Member for Potong Pasir for America and the actions of America, it would appear that Hendrickson made an error in his political judgment. He should have 

 cultivated the Member for Potong Pasir rather than Mr Francis Seow. Perhaps he should continue with the lunches that he often had with the Member for Potong Pasir without going through other devious offers of political asylum, because we understand that the Member for Potong Pasir did not ask that. It would have been less troublesome for Hendrickson and American interests would still be advanced. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir made a song and dance about the point made by the American Government - that no Government fund was used and that the Singapore Government accepted the position. Because of that, anything about American involvement should therefore not be linked. I think the Member for Potong Pasir cannot forget the Iran-Contra scandal from the revelation. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir can clarify later on when I have finished. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Ayer Rajah, who seldom agrees with the Member for Potong Pasir except this time, said that we should not keep on with the rhetorics because we may make the relationship between America and Singapore worse. I think to a point they are right, and I think the Minister for Foreign Affairs has put the position in very good perspective. We value the relationship on a government-to-government basis between Singapore and America because there are certain common ideas, common interests that we share. But if certain errant officials had committed certain acts detrimental to Singapore's interests, we should take the opportunity to point out the danger of what these activities could mean, not so much what has happened but much more: what could happen in future if we do not register the point that on matters like this we should take them very seriously. The fact that today we are making this issue an important issue and keep on reminding ourselves and Singaporeans of the gravity of the situation is merely to ensure that Singapore's security and future will be ensured. I think the purpose is not to sour up the relationship more than necessary. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also said the statutory declarations of Patrick Seong and Francis Seow were made under duress, were made while under detention. And because of their concern for their families, they had no choice but to spill the beans. The question is, are they spilling the right beans? Are they telling the truth, or are they not telling the truth? Anyone, whether it be Patrick Seong or Francis Seow, who is genuinely concerned about the well-being of his family, I think, in the first place will not want to get involved in anything that he knows will end him in trouble. 

    Of course, the Member for Potong Pasir has also picked the point that the Minister for Trade and Industry has said yesterday about Hendrickson's background when he was in the Philippines. He said, "Well, he helped Aquino to power. But what is wrong with that?" In other words, he is saying that interference in the political affairs of a country is justified. First, in the 

    Can pressure groups outside Singapore have a right to meddle in our affairs? Will anyone, for example, allow an outsider to have a say in his own domestic affairs? Or will the Member for Potong Pasir, for example, allow the PAP to have a say as to who should be elected into the SDP Executive Committee? And better still, to field a 

 few proxies to stand for office in the SDP? If the PAP were to do that, for example, would he and other critics of PAP not accuse the PAP of adopting foul tactics and subverting the SDP? 

    At a rally at the Toa Payoh Stadium, and also just now, the Member for Potong Pasir claimed he could not see any link between the subversive activities of the Marxist conspirators and the First Secretary of the American Embassy. And therefore, according to him at the Stadium, the charges against them were laughable. The Member for Potong Pasir could not be so naive as to believe that just because the two groups have widely different motives and ideologies, they could not act with a common purpose against the national interests of Singapore. The Member must know that in politics anything is possible. It is not uncommon to find strange bedfellows in unholy alliances if it suits their purpose. Call it whatever you like, political expediency or alliance of convenience is nothing new under the Singapore sun. Take, for example, the antics of the Opposition politicians in Singapore, particularly during election time. We would see most Opposition parties coming together, not because they have the same objective or ideology but because they have to join hands temporarily if they wanted to down the PAP and win seats. Is this not a classic example of an unholy alliance? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir must surely be aware that, in the Philippines, there are some priests and nuns giving assistance to communist insurgents. Would the Member for Potong Pasir not agree that this is the unholiest of the unholy alliances? Here we have one group which believes in God and Love and another group which not only does not believe in God but believes in violence. So the Member for Potong Pasir must not think that it is laughable that the Government of Singapore should find some American bureaucrats, some disgruntled Singaporeans and some Marxist conspirators involved in a network to subvert Singapore. True, their objectives and dreams may be different but their target is the same. It might not have started off as a 

    The amendment proposed by the Member for Potong Pasir also contends that under our democratic system, legitimate pressure groups do have a say in our domestic affairs. By this, I suppose he includes the so-called Amnesty International, the Asiawatch Group, the Committee of 100 in Australia and so on. Is the Member aware of their record of activities? Does he not know that the list of persons whose rights they champion includes members of terrorist organizations? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, why are you interrupting? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you rising on a point of order or a point of clarification? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you have already spoken on your amendment. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I did not anywhere in my speech say that Francis Seow has some secret American funds tucked under somewhere. I never said that. What I merely said was the fact that the Government of America's assurance that no American government fund was used should not preclude us from later on coming to the conclusion that there could be some American money involved somewhere, not necessarily from the American government. I have also stated that the Minister for Trade and Industry said yesterday in this House that the matter on the financial position of Francis Seow is under investigation. The truth will be known. So I am making no judgment as to whether Francis Seow received any fund from anywhere. But what I am trying to tell the Member for Potong Pasir is not to be so naive just because the American government says that it does not use its funds, therefore no other sources of American money were involved. They could not necessarily be involved but it should not preclude us from that conclusion. That is my point. In the investigation I think we have got to be thorough, and not on the basis of an assurance from the Americans, therefore we keep out the American source from the investigation. That is my point. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise to speak on some aspects of the amendment moved by the Member for Potong Pasir as well as on what he has said. 

 ference in our internal affairs by Mr Hank Hendrickson and the other United States officials. Other Ministers as well as my colleagues in this House have pointed out exactly what aspects of their actions were improper. The Member for Potong Pasir admits that the United States' diplomats were encouraging more opposition in this House. But he says that what Hank Hendrickson did was not a serious thing and "will not hurt us in any way", to use his words. And he asked what is wrong with having more Opposition. There is nothing wrong to answer his question. There is nothing wrong in having more Opposition in this House. But what is wrong is for foreign diplomats or foreign officials to instigate Singaporeans, to give them advice and agitate them to take on the Government. That is what is wrong. That is gross interference in our internal affairs, and we may do well to recall what is it that Patrick Seong was told by Hank Hendrickson. He was told in Lambertson's presence that lawyers should contest the general elections, that lawyers would vote against the PAP because of the Law Society's experience in the Select Committee hearings on the Legal Profession Act, that they were a disgruntled lot, were articulate and enjoyed professional status. And when he met Francis Seow, "Hank" Hendrickson emphasized the need for Francis Seow to take over hoiyung: who will come to Singapore's 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, the Member for Potong Pasir, while on the subject of Mr Hendrickson's activities, also made the point that he rejects the statutory declarations made by Mr Francis Seow and others. Why? Because he says they were made while they were in detention. I find this surprising. I find it surprising because, first of all, none of them, either Mr Francis Seow or Mr Patrick Seong through their lawyers or Mr Patrick Seong who is now released, has allegedthat what they have said in their statutory declarations is false or that they were extracted under force. 

    As the Minister for Trade and Industry pointed out, even the United States government, which has probably a major interest in protesting if they felt that the facts alleged in the statutory declaration are false, never disputed the facts as recited either by Mr Patrick Seong or by Mr Francis Seow. Therefore, it is surprising that the Member for Potong Pasir takes the view that he rejects the statutory declarations. 

    Now, if we take the logic of the Member for Potong Pasir to its ultimate conclusion, that is, any statutory declaration made by a person in detention must be rejected, then it means really that no statement can be considered unless one is free, out of custody and voluntarily chooses to make a 

 statement in public. Why on earth would anyone, whether Mr Francis Seow or anyone else, want to come out to the whole world and proclaim publicly his contacts and his meetings with different officials, how he cultivated foreign diplomats, and how other foreign diplomats, cultivated him, and his attempts to obtain asylum? Why should anybody say this? For that matter, no one, whether under ISA, the Penal Code or any other criminal law, can be interrogated or investigated in custody because, according to the Member for Potong Pasir, you cannot do that. You must let them come out and proclaim their guilt outside custody and not under investigation. This is so patently absurd that no law enforcement agency anywhere in the world will be able to deal with either subversion or criminal elements. 

    Sir, the final point I want to make is about the limb of the amendment by the Member for Potong Pasir which is contained in the second paragraph. He "calls on the Government to be more open and tolerant and declare that under our democratic system, legitimate pressure groups do have a say in our domestic affairs." If by that he means that we should always try to be more open, more tolerant, no one can quarrel with it, whether you are in Singapore or in any other country. And if by legitimate pressure groups, he means that lawfully constituted societies should be allowed to operate without impediment, that also we cannot quarrel with it. It is like motherhood and other sacred cows, we do not quarrel with it. But given the context of his amendment, the clear implication is that the actions taken by the Government had been intolerant and had not been open. But that cannot be so. We reject that. It must be rejected because the facts fly in the face of what the Member for Potong Pasir asserts. 

    First of all, I totally disagree with what the Member for Potong Pasir has just mentioned. The Leader of the House, in moving the motion, said that this House doth adopt the First Report of the Committee of Privileges, particularly when the Member for Potong Pasir said, if I got him right, that we are saying a lot of things about the former Member for Anson who is not present and it is just not right. I thought, Sir, that is already covered in this thick volume which the Leader of the House took us through. Since it is a motion that this House adopts the Report, it naturally follows that a debate can take place and I for one, having gone through part of the Report, heard very clearly in this House too, when the Leader took us through, that every opportunity was given to the former Member for Anson to defend himself. As a result, the Committee's findings are presented to Parliament and that the Leader of the House has asked that this House doth accept the Report and its findings. In that respect, Sir, I beg to support the motion. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. I was not a Member of the Committee of Privileges but I have been informed and I have read the Report of the Committee of Privileges. I did not note any abstention or dissenting vote when these two recommendations were made by the Committee of Privileges. So I would like to ask the Member for Potong Pasir what is his position on this. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, can I be of some assistance? This Report, the draft Report of the Chairman, namely, the Speaker of the House, was made available to Members of the Committee of Privileges and they had it with them before the last meeting held on 19th January, which was a Monday. At that last meeting on Monday, 19th January, the Member for Potong Pasir was present. The Report of that meeting is set out in the last two pages of this volume (Parl. 3 of 1987), pages E12 and E13. If Members refer to it, they will find that the Member for Potong Pasir was present. And on page E13, the decision is that the Committee agreed and resolved that its Report be agreed to. 

Those are the Chairman's introductory remarks. Then the Chairman went through the Report, paragraph by paragraph, and it was unanimously accepted by the Members of the Committee and no Member, including the Member for Potong Pasir, sought a division on either paragraph or on the Report as a whole. It is, therefore, not surprising that the Leader of the House is surprised. I am also surprised that, after having indicated assent and had not called for a division in the Committee, the Member now here abstains. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I can help. We are reading from this thick Report (indicating Parl. 3 of 1987). Paragraph 6.3, page 24, which sets out the recommendation of the Committee of Privileges. Has the Member for Potong Pasir got the page? Page 24, paragraph 6.3. It reads: 

    'Now that the Committee have found that hoiyung: Order. It appears that there is nothing in the Standing Orders to prohibit Mr Chiam from abstaining in spite of the stand that he has taken in Committee. At any rate, the Ayes have it. 

    From what the Member for Potong Pasir has said, the debate may be on how much we value the truth. Thus the motion before us is whether the fine of $5,000 per offence is too severe or not severe enough. I think it is worse if we, as a Parliament, do not exercise our responsibility to punish a duly elected Member of Parliament who misrepresents what actually happens in any of our proceedings. It is even more serious when these are proceedings of the highest 

 body in the country, Parliament and its Committees. Can we afford to allow this to happen? If we, as Members of Parliament, do not set the example, then how can we enforce the law? How can we uphold the system? If we allow Parliament to be misrepresented, then the logical consequence is the erosion of public confidence in Parliament. Can we afford the erosion of public confidence in the highest body of the land? If people do not have faith in Parliament, it would not be possible to conduct public affairs and all systems will break down. That is why the action of the former Member for Anson must be dealt with promptly and firmly. There is no other authority in the land that can keep this House in order. It is for us, the Members of this House, to keep our House in order. 

  In Malay): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, permit me to respond to the Second Report tabled by the Leader of the House. We witnessed this morning the recommendation contained in the First Report of the Committee of Privileges that the former Member for Anson was found guilty of contempt of the Committee of Privileges and of Parliament. The essence of his offence lies in his allegation that the administration of the Judiciary is tarnished thereby raising doubts about the sanctity of our laws. He casts aspersions that the Judiciary is being manipulated, influenced and interfered with. However, we all know that the Committee of Privileges in its First Report has totally repudiated all these smears made by the ex Member for Anson as untruths. We are now debating the Second Report of the Committee of Privileges which accuses hoiyungasked his pretensions and, further, arising out of these reports has emerged a pattern of politics that is blurred and obscured. But what is more important to me is that these reports form an object lesson to our people, especially the voters of Singapore. Do we need an Opposition which, since its entry into Parliament, I think, want to snare the Government but eventually got itself trapped? This brings to memory a folklore in Malay literature. We all know the story of Pak Pandir who was always doing a good turn to others. But because of his ignorance and stupidity, he got himself entangled and finally destroyed. I liken the brand of politics as practised by the Opposition to that of the modern Pak Pandir. Why do I say that this is the brand of politics of the modern Pak Pandir? If hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I say a few words? I have listened to the Member for Potong Pasir and I noted that most of his comments were devoted to the question of penalty. But at the same time he also did comment that in his view hoiyung: You have already spoken once on the motion, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I suggest that after I have made two points, the Member for Potong Pasir be given the opportunity to say what he wants. 

 mentary proceedings to be treated with contempt, without any respect. We have had many examples of the former Member for Anson treating the proceedings of the Committee as well as this Parliament without the respect that is due to Parliament. 

    Regarding the specific offence of publishing distorted proceedings of a Committee, it is because it is a serious offence that there is a specific provision in the law that there cannot be wilful distortion of anything that a Member says in Parliament or of any proceedings of Parliament or any Committee of Parliament. It is a serious offence, and that is why it is specifically dealt with in the law, and I think that the penalty should not only be punitive but also a deterrent not only to the former Member for Anson but also to others - that they cannot treat Parliamentary proceedings with contempt. 

    In the Report that we discussed this morning, the Member had full opportunity. In this Second Report, the Member was asked to explain and he explained and the Committee could have heard him. I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir wanted to hear hoiyung: I am much obliged to you, Mr Deputy Speaker. The point brought up by the Minister is whether or not I agreed with the findings of the Committee that he is guilty. The fact that I had suggested a form of punishment, what does it mean? Can you punish a person without finding him guilty? You are a lawyer. You are a Professor of Law; so I cannot understand why you asked me this question. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Are you giving way, Mr Chiam? 

 that we have gone against precedents or rules of natural justice. The Member for Potong Pasir said that we are going against all precedents in imposing a fine on a person who is not here. We would like him to quote the precedents so that we will know exactly where we stand. Erskine May is there. How can we break precedents unless he quotes us precedents? If the Member can quote us any precedent, then maybe he has got a case we can reconsider. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, since we are quite early in the stage of our proceedings today, perhaps we can take a ten-minute adjournment for the Member for Potong Pasir to come up with a precedent if he wants to avail himself of the time. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: The Question is, the Motion so moved by the Leader of the House. Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, when the House took a suspension earlier on, you were having the Floor and you were asked to come back and give your precedent. So I am giving you the Floor. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we are deadly serious. If it is alleged that we have not followed the law and if he can give us the precedent, we will follow the law. The Member for Potong Pasir said that he thought he saw a precedent, an Australian case --- 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, where we do not have any precedents in Singapore of our own, we are guided by the practice in the United Kingdom House of Commons. The Member for Potong Pasir has not cited a precedent but may I refer him to page --- 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir, like all Members, of course, has a right to express an opinion. 

  hoiyung: But where the opinion expresses a view that this House is deviating from a particular procedure or has not followed what the Member considers to be a proper procedure, then the question arises from that Member's opinion, what is the proper procedure? The implication of what the Member for Potong Pasir has said is that there is a proper procedure which calls --- 

  hoiyung: --- for the previous Member for Anson to have a right to be heard in this House before this House inflicts the penalty of a fine. Now I refer the Member for Potong Pasir to page 171 of Erskine May. I read: 

  Mr Dhanabalan: It is a very simple point. The Member for Potong Pasir says that hoiyung: One final point, Sir. The Member for Potong Pasir in the Committee never made a request for Mr 

 Jeyaretnam to be called, to be heard in person, either on the charge or on the penalty. I also refer him to page 172 of Erskine May which says: 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, it is a point of order. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, are you going to read the whole book? 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, would you allow the Prime Minister to clarify? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, on the occasions the Prime Minister has interjected, I have noted that you have given way to the Prime Minister. If you are giving way, the Prime Minister then has the Floor. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, when the Newspaper and Printing Presses Act was debated in Parliament in 1986, one of the key principles that is enshrined in the Bill is the free flow of information. After a publication is deemed by the Government to have engaged in domestic politics, its circulation will be drastically reduced when it is gazetted as a declared publication. However, even though its circulation has been reduced, for those who like to have access to the publication for general interest or for research, they can still refer to the copies in the library. Thus, as long as there are sufficient copies in circulation, free flow of information is preserved, contrary to what the Member for Potong Pasir has asserted. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir went round and round. I just wondered whether he supports the Bill, or he does not. Does he or does he not support the free flow ofinformation? Because he seems very confused. He does not understand how this Bill will make it possible for all Singa- 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, we are seeing a classic example of the pot calling the kettle black. A moment ago the Member for Potong Pasir complained about the Prime Minister not addressing the Deputy Speaker to seek permission, and here we have the Member for Potong Pasir doing exactly the same thing. I think next time before he becomes critical of others, he should take a look at himself. 

    Sir, let us get back to basics. If the Member's Party, the SDP, wishes to apply for a permit to reproduce the FEER, the Asian Wall Street Journal, and all the other gazetted publications, I assure him he will get it. Does he want to do that? My assurance is, he can have it. In fact, I have given the assurance that if the Asian Wall Street Journal and FEER want to print their magazines in Singapore and circulate freely without charge, but without advertisements, I shall arrange for them to be given the approval. 

  Dr Yeo Ning Hong: Mr Deputy Speaker, may I ask that you advise the Member for Potong Pasir not to interrupt. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir and Members of this House must surely know that if any Singaporean were to comment on the domestic politics of, say, for example, our Asean neighbours, they are not going to be lightly received. They do not even have to be reported in the local papers in these countries. If any Singaporean, including the Member for Potong Pasir, were to engage himself in the domestic politics of our Asean neighbours, there is going to be a mighty row. It is obvious that the domestic politics of a country remains the province of its citizens and its government. 

 Minister not being accountable to anyone. I do not think he understands at all how the mechanism works. The Minister is accountable to Parliament. That is why we are here answering questions, debating. The Member for Potong Pasir can always ask questions anytime. The trouble is that when he asks a question, he does not even turn up for the answer. I am sure he must have left word with the Member for Chong Boon. It is a pity the Member for Chong Boon is not here, otherwise we will ask him whether there is some special arrangement to ask questions on his behalf. Sir, obviously, like Pontius Pilate, the Member for Potong Pasir asks questions without really wanting to hear the answers. 

    Sir, I ask the Member for Potong Pasir categorically: does he or does he not support the free flow of information? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have just given the Member my views and he has obviously not heard. I am treating the Member for Potong Pasir's exposition of draftsmanship with exactly the same amount of seriousness as I did his exposition on libel law. 

  hoiyung: You were expounding that particular point of view a moment ago. Sir, we are looking at societies that have, among their statistics, some of the highest incidence of murder, of mugging, of child abuse, of divorce, of family breakdowns, and the Member for Potong Pasir wants us - he may want to practise a "monkey see, monkey do" approach to doing things. But this is not the way we do things in Singapore. 

  hoiyung: I would like to inform honourable Members that on 9th October, 1986, I received a complaint from the Leader of the House, under Standing Order 95(7)(c), against the Member for Anson for breach of Parliamentary privilege in respect of five newsletters addressed to the residents of Anson, signed by him, purporting to report on the daily proceedings of the Committee of Privileges meetings from 8th to the 12th of September 1986. I am satisfied that the matter complained of prime facie affects the privileges of Parliament and that it has been raised at the earliest opportunity, and I have referred the matter to the Committee of Privileges. I shall ask the Clerk to circulate to Members in the course of the day copies of the complaint. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson was told of the answer this morning. He was told of this in an answer to the same question that he raised on 22nd September when the amendment was made by the Minister. I suggest that he read the transcript to the Minister's speech when he moved the amendment on the 22nd September. The answers are there. 

 to avoid the House wasting more time. The Acting Minister, not being a lawyer, has given a clear reply. The Member for Anson, being a lawyer, fails to appreciate the point. Now, let us first look what Time magazine said. It said: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the debate on the law was conducted and finished on 22nd September. The Member for Anson's question addressed to the Prime Minister and dealt with by the Acting Minister for Community Development was simple: in what way was the Time magazine statement an error of fact? This question has been answered. If he wants now to resurrect the legal argument, it is a separate question which we are fully prepared to defend. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, although this question is not relevant, I can assure the Member for Potong Pasir that all of them will get their refund if they have not yet got it. All of them will get their refund. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir is asking a question which I have to check for an answer. I do not carry with me the millions of accounts of HDB flat-owners with me. So I cannot give him an immediate answer. But I can assure the Member for Potong Pasir that those people will be refunded. If he is asking me for a time limit, certainly it is not 10 years. Perhaps offhand I can say that if they have not already got their money, they should get it within three months. 

    Sir, it is not the Registrar of Societies who has delayed the registration of the proposed Anson People's Assembly. As the Registrar informed the Member for Anson on 11th September, 1986, the delay in registration is, and here I quote, Sir: 

    When the Member for Anson first applied on 9th October, 1985, for registration of the society, the Registrar of Societies found its constitution incomplete and contrary to the standard requirements of a non-political society. Among other things, it did not include the standard prohibition clauses against indulging in political activities and allowing its funds or premises to be used for political purposes. Details such as the procedure for election of office bearers were omitted. As the main objective of the proposed society was to promote the welfare of the residents and membership was restricted to residents of the Anson Constituency, the Member for Anson was also requested to appoint a resident of Anson as the Secretary of the society. 

    In his reply in July 1986, the Member for Anson did agree to appoint a resident of Anson as Secretary, but he failed to name the Secretary. Moreover, his revised constitution still did not include the prohibition clauses on political activities for a non-political society. 

    Sir, in his latest reply of 6th October 1986, the Member for Anson has now said that some of the society's, and here I quote "activities may be considered political." As such, he has refused to include the prohibition clauses on political activities. So long as the Memberfor Anson persists in not complying with the requirements of the Registrar of Societies, it will not be possible for the application to be approved. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson takes objection to the two-month interval between his letter to the Registrar of Societies and the reply. He should know that the Registrar of Societies deals with thousands of societies in Singapore and it is the Registrar's duty to deal with every query expeditiously. Queries bearing sufficient information will certainly be dealt with in a much shorter time. 

 But the Member for Anson has persistently refused to submit the required information. Therefore, it is just not possible to reply to him as expeditiously as in replying to the others. 

    With regard to this delay, he said that the Registrar took two months to reply to him. Does he not know that it took him a much longer time to reply to a simple query from the Registrar of Societies? Sir, the Member for Anson was informed on 29th January 1986 that he must nominate a resident as a secretary of the proposed Assembly or society, since the membership of the association is limited to Anson residents. He was reminded to do so in a letter dated 22nd May 1986. How long did it take the Member for Anson to submit just this one name for a secretary of the proposed association? Sir, it took him eight months, from 29th January 1986 to 6th October 1986, before he was able to inform the Registrar of Societies that he has found an Anson resident who is prepared now to be the secretary of his proposed association. These eight months' delay cannot be attributed to the Registrar of Societies. The Member for Anson has only himself to blame if he cannot supply essential information on time. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: Sir, the Member for Anson's letter of the 6th October is quite clear. 

  Dr Lee Boon Yang: The Member for Anson can distribute the letter if he chooses to. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as I have answered already, the Registrar of Societies is not dragging his feet in delaying the registration of the proposed society. It is the duty of the Registrar of Societies to ensure that societies are registered with proper constitutions and rules and regulations which will allow for proper management and control of these societies. If the Member for Anson refuses to comply with such proper rules and regulations, then obviously his society cannot be registered. 

    The Member for Anson referred to his letter of the 6th March. He failed to inform the House that in the letter he merely agreed to the principle that since his proposed society was limiting its membership to residents of Anson he therefore accepts the requirement that its secretary should be a resident of Anson. 

    The hon. Member for Anson has indicated that he wishes to move an amendment to the Question. As the hon. Member is aware, debate on the Third Reading of a Bill shall be confined to the contents of the Bill. The hon. Member's amendment, as worded, appears to be in respect of the general merits and principle of the Bill. I therefore cannot allow the hon. Member to move his amendment. 

 hearings in the United States. A lot of the energy of the Committee would appear to have been taken to weeding out perceived Workers' Party sympathisers (I said "perceived") in the Council of the Law Society. But I see that the Government does not consider it at all wrong for members of a certain political party to take control of organizations and to direct their activities. I asked the Prime Minister in a press release whether he would ask all members of all professional bodies and societies and clubs to declare their allegiance to any political party. And I see he has chosen to remain silent. And I notice only the other day that the First Deputy Prime Minister has proposed that the members of the Town Council which has been hailed as another step in the growth of democracy in this country should come from the members or the activists of this political party. So this would appear to be the rule - that whilst it is all right for members of one political party --- 

  Mr Speaker: Thank you for your clarification, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Abdullah Tarmugi: I am not saying that the rule does not exist. As I said, Sir, at the beginning, I quoted the letter, "Re: Present unfair terms incorporated in the practices, directions and rulings, 1984." If the Member for Potong Pasir had kept his ears open, perhaps he would not have jumped up unnecessarily. 

    The other important point about this amendment is, as the Member for Anson has said, that it is inimical to the promotion of democracy in this country. I think this is relevant because we are going to undermine the very foundation of our system. Do we or do we not believe in democracy? How do we define democracy? Perhaps there is no other person who can define it better than the Prime Minister himself. I will read to you what he has said in 1977 in an interview given to Ludovic Kennedy of the BBC on 5th March 1977. This was the time when Mr Lee Kuan Yew was in the Opposition in 1955 when he first came into Parliament. This is what he said: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to support this Bill and I have taken note of some of the points raised by some Members of this House. In the first place, the Member for Anson complained that on some sections of the Bill no representations were made by the Law Society and therefore the amendments do not represent their opinion. Sir, we should be mindful that it was the Government who initiated this Bill. It was not the Law Society's Bill or anybody else's Bill. And let us not forget the primary purpose of this amendment. It is this - to protect the best interests of the public by regulating and maintaining the standards of the legal profession. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Yes, Sir. I have a very short preamble to my speech, unlike the Member for Anson. 

    Reference was made to democracy by the Member for Potong Pasir and other matters were raised by the Member for Anson. So I do not see why I should not introduce by way of --- 

 lawyers? I can understand if they are re-admitted to practise after some time, but to sit on a Council that sets standards for the legal profession would surely require people with unblemished record. To me, Sir, it is a sad commentary on the standards that lawyers have set themselves when they are willing not only to advocate this in this House but also to actually elect people with such past adverse records. I have here in my pocket, Sir, a case of one of my voters who went to see the Member for Potong Pasir. He was charged $200 for writing a useless letter to a Minister - a case which I had taken up with the Minister, got a negative reply - and here he was charging my voter $200. What is this standard of ethics? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, may I say something? I presume this particular person went to see you in your office as a client? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that there is no need to do anything about the legal profession because the number of complaints against lawyers has gone down. Sir, we know very well that it is virtually useless to complain to the Law Society. First of all, they take ages to consider cases and (b) for every lawyer that is brought to book, many have probably been let off the hook. And for every small complaint that has been brought to book, many have gone unanswered. It is not a question that the standards of the profession are already high. There is provision under clause 11(c)(6), Sir, for a Disciplinary Committee. I think this is a good thing, especially in shortening the time to within six months for complaints to be dealt with. We certainly support this amendment. But I was surprised to see that the provision of a lay person, which was included in the original Bill, has now been amended in such a way that this lay person cannot vote on the Disciplinary Committee and he need not be present at all times. I would have thought at least his presence would be required and I certainly would give him a vote. I do not see why a lay person should not vote. I can see a crook when I see one. 

  Mr Barker: Mr Speaker, Sir, I will first deal with Mr Chiam's question, comparison of Mr Marshall being appointed Ambassador. Let me first say that I have the greatest respect for Mr Marshall. He was unfortunately suspended some years ago but that was years ago. But he was not suspended for fraud. The Minister for Foreign Affairs thought he was a fit and proper person to be made an Ambassador, and he has done and is doing a very good job for us in France. To Mr Chiam's question again, can I refer to the Report of the Committee, pages B29 and B30. And I proceed to quote at the bottom of the page, B29, Prime Minister asked Mr Harry Elias: 

  hoiyung: Well, that is a matter of opinion. The Member for Anson in criticising some of these amendments said the Bar made no representations and nothing was done or heard about in Select Committee. Can I refer the Member to page B46? 

  hoiyung: Then the Member said that we were weeding out "perceived Workers' Party sympathisers from the Law Society." There is nothing wrong with lawyers being members of the Workers' Party or the PAP. But what we are against is really using the Law Society for politicking and concealing their true colours. You say there are PAP men in other organizations. Of course, there are. Trade unions, for instance. Nothing wrong with it. But they are there publicly and openly, not in a clandestine manner. 

    The Member for Anson asked me whether they accepted this proposal or that proposal, I do not know. I gave no directions to the Attorney-General. He drafted the provisions with their help, and that is good. 

    Sir, to put things in a nutshell, it is the legal profession amongst all the professions that help in the administration of Singapore. Doctors help to cure you of diseases. Architects draw, engineers build, but it is people like Mr Chiam and hoiyung: Name them. 

Lee Yiok Seng                      Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: As the Member for Anson would know, the Minister for Law is not in charge of prosecutions or the conduct of any criminal proceedings in court, nor does he give any directives on these matters. 

    In view of these provisions, the question from the Member for Anson is not appropriate. 

    Yesterday morning when I was not present in the Chamber, the Member for Anson again referred to the recent incident when 113 daily-rated employees of the Public Works Department were made redundant by the completion of the Changi Airport and other minor works. He said I had misled the House. Unfortunately he was not present in the House yesterday afternoon when I came in, and he is still not here this morning. Nevertheless, allow me to set the record straight. 

    I would like to propose that the Government seriously consider a certain form of tax known as the expenditure tax. This tax is based on a very simple premise that your income minus savings is equal to expenditure. You take your income for the year, and if you minus your net savings, the residual is assumed to be your expenditure. Net savings means a higher level of savings at the end of the year when compared to the beginning of the year. Then you minus it. But if you save less, ie, if your level of savings, this year is less than the level of savings last year, then you have to add the difference to income. To give a numeric example, Sir, if your income per year is $10,000 and, as at the end of last year, your savings was $1,000, your expenditure would be $9,000. If at the end of this year, your savings is $2,000, one can therefore presume that $1,000 is saved.Tax then, Sir, is imposed on this $9,000 because that is what you spent. Therefore, Sir, it is a substitute for income tax but based on expenditure and this tax can be taxed on a progressive basis. This means that the more you spend the higher the amount of tax you pay because the marginal rate goes up. Sir, this is nothing new. A green paper on this was produced by SDP. Sir, I do not mean the Singapore Democratic Party, but the Social Democratic Party in England. They have produced this green paper as an alternative to the income tax in the UK. I think it will be worth our while to look at this paper to study whether this system could be used in Singapore. With that, Sir, I support the motion. 

    The Member for Anson talked about unemployment. Does he know the true meaning of that word? Has he ever faced a crowd of unemployed, frustrated, and really miserable people? He talked about the 100-odd retrenched workers in the PWD. Well, what is 100-odd retrenched workers compared with a massive unemployment in the '50s and the '60s when the unemployment figures reached 12%. 

    The Member for Anson talked about unemployment benefits. Is it a solution? I said just now that we are prepared to take medicine. But this suggestion by the Member for Anson is not even a medicine. It is a poison. It is opium, trying to numb the reflexes of our people. 

    During the economic recession, there bound to have people criticizing each other, putting the blame on the others. The Member for Anson said that the Government has misled the people, the Government should be responsible for the present economic problem and unemployment situation. The Member for Alexandra also blamed the glut in property market on the URA. To certain extent, what Member for Alexandra said, may be true. But we must know that if the URA has to shoulder the responsibility, then what about the developers themselves? If the cow is not willing, how are you going to pull the cow and force it to drink. Now is not the time to put the blame on anybody. Even if now we off the head of the Minister for National Development, there is no remedy at all. The empty hotel rooms and the offices and other properties will still be empty. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir yesterday had mentioned that the prosperity of our country in 1960s was because of the Vietnam War. But let me tell him that at that time, our trade with Vietnam mainly consisted of oil, and plus some maintenance services, which together, occupied only 1.5% of our GDP at that time. This figure compared with what I mentioned about the loss of 16.3% in our GDP following the British military withdrawal, there is a very great difference. Can the Member for Potong Pasir make a calculation of that? The Member for Anson on 31st August last year and again in this sitting moved amendment motions expressing his so-called "regret." I regret even more about his regret. He suggested to provide unemployment benefit to unemployed, trying to show himself to be a philanthropist. I say that it will be better for the unemployed to try to find alternative job or employment. I know the unemployed has to lower his expectations and make other adjustments. If the unemployed is to be given employment, at least he is providing his own means of living on earned income through his own effort and need not beg others for alms. We must respect the self-respect of the unemployed. Not everyone is willing to receive alms from others. In fact, the whole Economic Committee Report is to promote our economic revival through reduction of taxes, increase in investments to create more employment opportunity. This is the most positive and correct approach. 

    Unfortunately, the two Opposition Members, who have been absent for most of the debate today, belong to this small category of those who are either ignorant of our problems or who are blind to the economic reality. In their case, I suspect they do not comprehend and are not aware of our economic predicament. Sir, they are intelligent people. But unfortunately they are obsessed by what the Member for Potong Pasir has called "their adversary role", that is to say, be the enemy of the Government at all times. Even as the Government is faced with a national problem which affects all the people, the Opposition Members continue to oppose. Is this what the role of the Opposition in Parliament should be? Where is their concern for the welfare of the people? Where is the responsibility which we expect from Opposition Members during a period of national crisis? Sir, maybe their sterile tactics and antics are just a cover-up for their inability to come out with solutions to deal with our economic problems. 

    On the Opposition side, Mr Speaker, Sir, they seem to think that to deal with our economic crisis a simple economic strategy should be adopted. What the Member for Potong Pasir has called "rule of thumb" economics. In essence, in my view, they are prone to plunder the reserves which we have in order to solve the economic problem. Are they not aware that our reserves as well as our manpower are our only resources? Both these must be strengthened and should not be weakened or depleted. If we accept their economic strategy, "rule of thumb" economics, whatever that may mean, then I am afraid that is the way the economy will go - the reserves will be plundered and manpower will be undermined. 

    Sir, I next turn to the Member for Buona Vista and the Member for Anson. Both have spoken on the itinerant street hawkers, especially those associated with vanishing trades. Sir, I understand the emotional appeal and the nostalgia attached to such itinerant street hawkers, I too grew up in a time when there were many of them around. But such street hawkers, if they were encouraged, would invariably lead to a proliferation of many other similar street hawkers and as a result, give rise to many undesirable consequences, such as pollution and congestion and obstruction, which are points that I have raised before, 

    Sir, regarding the street hawkers selling food, including rojak, as brought up by the Member for Anson, I would like to remind him that for a person to sell food on a bicycle, it is obvious that he does not have adequate means of maintaining basic standards of hygiene and cleanliness. The food is also exposed to dust and fume which one finds on the road. The Member is indicating to me that it is covered up. Sir, I do not see how you could ply your rojak in a hermetically sealed container. If we were to promote such itinerant street hawking of food, we are promoting an untraceable source of public health hazard, such as food poisoning. The fact that such hawkers wander around, today he is here and tomorrow he has gone to another place, means that it would be very difficult to trace or detect the causes of food poisoning. Sir, overall, my Ministry is not in favour of promoting such itinerant street hawkers. 

    Sir, the Member for Whampoa also distressed me because he practised what I normally associate with the Member for Anson, and that is, to cast a slur on Government and government-associated companies. Coming from the Member for Whampoa, I can only say: Et Tu Brutus. Sir, there is no, and I repeat, there is no basis to the claim that Primary Industries Enterprise is the only company given the right to import frozen pork. In actual fact, no company requires a licence to operate as a frozen pork, or for that matter, as a frozen meat importer. What is required, Sir, is just an import permit which can be obtained from the Primary Production Department. The purpose of the import permit is to ascertain that the pork or other frozen meat originates from a country with compatible veterinary public health standards. This is to protect the consumers in Singapore from the peddling of low-quality and undesirable meat products. Currently, Sir, 36 companies are engaged in importing frozen pork in Singapore. Primary Industries Enterprise only imported 150 tons of frozen pork last year, representing 2% of the frozen pork imported into Singapore, and there is again no validity to the allegations that 

  Encik Yatiman Yusof: Mr Speaker, the Member for Anson has made a very serious allegation about the newspapers in Singapore and I would like to enlighten the Member concerned so that he could be more factual in his speech. Point No. (1): Sir, if he accuses that on that particular date, 23rd March, the Business Times of Singapore did publish an editorial and had subsequently withdrawn the editorial, I 

    Point No. (2): I have serious doubts, Sir, that the Member for Anson is fully aware about - 

  hoiyung: Because I was a former editor. The Member for Anson should take the point that not being in the business does not equip him to be equally knowledgeable with those who have been doing the job for a long time. That is a point of fact that he should recognize, 

    Sir, until the Member for Anson comes up with his proof and I want to see the two editorials being shown to all of us here in this House, I demand that he withdraws his accusation and apologize to the House. 

    Point No. (2): Does the Member for Anson not realize that being Singapore citizens, journalists, regardless of whatever rank they are holding in the newspapers, have the sense of responsibility to the nation first and journalism second? The sense of responsibility among the journalists may clash with the Government if they have a very strong second point of view. And in this respect, through editorials, through stories, there have been cases where journalists challenge Government's views. If the Member is knowledgeable enough and he has read enough letters to the editors concerning various issues before the elections, he should know how even-handed the editors of newspapers have been, especially the Business Times and the Straits Times. 

    Another point, Sir. Sense of responsibi lity is an over-riding factor when it come to running stories in.the newspapers. If the story is found to be seriously intimidating and could cause serious disruption in the social relationship, I think the conscience of the editors shall prevail arid he would withdraw the story or editorial. In this respect, there have been cases where stories were withdrawn before they were printed, and it was done not out of fear, out of being made to feel that they were lackeys of the Government, but out of a sense of responsibility. I think that is the point which I need to drive home to the Member for Anson before he makes an allegation. 

    Sir, we must also look into the problem of taxi drivers who are 45 years and above, who may find it quite difficult compared with their younger counterparts who, being more vigorous, are able to be on the road for long hours. They must take into account the safety of their passengers. The problem will multiply if we were to take the suggestion made by the Member for Potong Pasir to increase the speed limit. If an accident happens, please do not blame the car because there is nothing wrong with the nut that built the car, but everything is wrong with the nut behind the wheel. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir made two suggestions on how to improve our land transportation system. First, he said that we should educate our motorists so that our expressways would not be clogged up. The second suggestion was to decentralize Government offices. In fact, he commended the Government, the Immigration Department, in particular, which has started a move to decentralize some of its services. If you just make a count of the Government Ministries, the headquarters in particular, you will find that about half, or slightly more than half, fall outside the busy business areas. The large Government departments, like Mindef and the Environment Ministry fall outside the CBD areas. What else is new? 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, in his usual way, blowing hot and cold, exaggerates things. Just now, he mentioned the case of a certain taxi driving licence applicant who, because of his poor Mandarin, had failed in his attempt to get a licence. So it appears that the Mandarin test is a stumbling block. If that was true, there would be very few taxi-drivers. But at the moment there are about 34,000 taxi-drivers in Singapore. Further, I think the ROV requires only ethnic Chinese applicants to take oral tests in Mandarin which is quite simple. Anybody with a little effort will be able to pass this kind of oral test. 

    Why should ROV conduct such oral test for taxi driving applicants? It is because of its practical use in the interest of taxidrivers. Because of our bi-lingual policy and the success of the Speak Mandarin Campaign, therefore, in future there will be more and more people able to speak Mandarin or English. It is to the taxidrivers' advantage that they should be able to speak Mandarin. So I would advise the Member for Anson to persuade that applicant that he mentioned to strive to learn or to pick-up Mandarin. There is a lot of opportunity to learn Mandarin. There are classes conducted for the teaching of Mandarin, in the community centres, by the Singapore Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry, even Rediffusion and SBC are conducting conversational Mandarin programmes. Members of the public can even ring up certain telephone numbers to learn Mandarin through the "Dial-for-Mandarin" programme. So it is not quite appropriate for the Member for Anson to make a mountain out of a mole-hill. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the hon. Member for Anson has great faith in committees. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has a few proposals. He recommended the use 

  hoiyung: On the 20th March 1986, the Member for Anson rose under Standing Order 95(7)(b) to make a complaint of a breach of privilege, alleging aspersions on the office of the Speaker by an hon. Member of this House. Under the Standing Order, I ruled against reference of the matter of the complaint to the Committee of Privileges. 

    During Question Time on the 26th March 1986, the Member for Anson again made reference to his complaint. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I do not follow the statement of the Australian Foreign Ministry as closely as the Member for Anson. I am sure he will delight the Australian PR Officer at the High Commission here, no end. He ought to be commended for having attracted the attention of the Member for Anson. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not have details of each incident. But if the Member for Anson is aware of any such cases and if he will present me with the facts, I will investigate the matter. 

    The hon. Member for Anson may rest assured that the Public Trustee and his officers make every effort to ensure that the monies are paid to the victims or their beneficiaries expeditiously. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir again harped on his old tune. He wants the PA to reopen the Sennett Community Centre. As for the reasons why the centre was closed, he was quite clear when he mentioned the reasons very fully. The closure of Sennett Community Centre was in the plan of the PA, which was formulated by the PA some years ago. If the Member for Potong Pasir is interested to know, I can tell him that in 1984, when he was not an MP yet, 15 community centres were closed down. In 1985, 13 community centres were closed down. In the next few years, another 29 community centres will be closed down. This is purely because we want to make full and better use of the resources of the various community centres. It is not 

    (In Mandarin): I feel that this question need not be repeated. We do not have to argue over and over again because all this is in accordance with the original plan of the PA formulated a few years ago. We cannot change our original plan just because the Member for Potong Pasir has objected to it. 

    The Member for Anson asked whether the Registry of Marriages can refuse to register a marriage. The function of the Registrar of Marriages is to solemnize and register marriages so long as they fulfil the conditions laid down in the Women's Charter. But the requirements of the Women's Charter cannot be confused with the requirements or conditions laid down by the Commissioner for Employment or the Controller of Immigration. Under the present policy, a work permit holder must obtain the approval of the Commissioner for Employment before he marries a Singapore citizen. A foreigner who wants to work in Singapore is given a work permit to do so and this is the basis of issuing him with a work permit. It is not for him to marry in Singapore. 

  Dr Lau Teik Soon: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was astonished to hear just now from the Member for Potong Pasir that he represents the Chinese Communist Party. He should realize that even up to now --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, did we not hear him say that the Chinese Communist Party does not have any more ties with any communist movement in Southeast Asia? Up to now the Chinese Communist Party has not eschewed any such connection of ties with any communist party in Southeast Asia. Now if the Member for Potong Pasir says that the Chinese Government, ie, the Chinese Communist Party, has no longer any such ties with the communist movement in Southeast Asia, then obviously he knows more than we do. 

  hoiyung: I would like to hear the Minister's version. I am checking them now. The Member for Anson, if he will be patient, will hear the truth from the Minister. 

  Dr Aline K. Wong: Just one point of clarification. The Member for Anson heard me wrong. My complaint to the Minister was that the foreign husbands of Singapore women have a more difficult time in getting PR than the foreign wives of Singapore men. What gives the Member for 

 More than 11,000 persons applied for permanent residence. Even though the Member for Anson paints Singapore as a terrible police state, there are 11,000 persons who want to be permanent residents, who are not fleeing away from the so-called police state. 

    As of 16th March, 1986, there were 715 persons in our jail for overstaying, for being illegal immigrants. The number would have been more had we not repatriated others. There is an average of about 60 persons arrested weekly for illegal overstaying or illegal entry, and about an average of 32 are prosecuted weekly. Those then are the stark figures. Here again, bear in mind, the Member for Anson says we are a police state, but all these people want to come to Singapore even at the risk of arrest and prosecution. 715 persons in our jails. Last year over 46,000 persons were detected for overstaying. Of them, more than 4,500 were arrested as they had overstayed a long time. 

    While we are on immigration, the other day the Member for Anson raised the same points which were dealt with when he asked supplementary questions with regard to the question the Member for Clementi asked on spouses. Mr Speaker, Sir, what I said the other day was that the practice in most countries of the world is to make a distinction between grant of citizenship or permanent residence on the one hand and grant of entry and immigration on the other. That was what I said, and he can check the Hansard. My Ministry has consulted the embassies of as many countries as it could - Malaysia, Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Brunei, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Japan, Canada, USA, Australia, New Zealand, UK, Germany, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Pakistan. My Ministry asked whether there is any automatic right of entry on the basis of marriage, and the answer is no. The only country where the answer was yes, was Switzerland. 

    The Member for Anson talked about violation of fundamental human rights. The point I would like to make is that both the Registry of Marriages as well as the Office of the Work Permit, Commissioner for Employment, make it very clear to the parties before they marry that marriage does not confer automatic rights of entry or permanent residence. If I may quote from the letter which is issued at the Registry of Marriages. I will not read the entire text: 

    Now I come to the point made by the Member for Potong Pasir. All of a sudden he has become an expert on communist insurrection! I do not know whether he listened to the comprehensive statement which I made on 31st August 1985 on the question of Chia Thye Poh and where I distributed fairly detailed papers to 

 Members of the House. If he was here, obviously he did not listen, because if he had listened, he would not have made the point that he mentioned just now. His point is that there is no communist danger in Singapore, no possibility of communist insurrection or communist insurgency. I would prefer to rely on a political scientist such as the Member for Serangoon Gardens. Has not the Member for Potong Pasir heard of the Voice of Malayan Democracy, which is the CPM radio station which broadcasts even now? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir said that the Internal Security Act should be abolished. I dread really the day if he became the Minister for Home Affairs and abolished the Internal Security Act. 

    The Member for Anson, and this is the last point I will deal with, joined the bandwagon and says that Singapore is a Police state; Police are acting in rampant and reckless disregard of the law. Surely, as the Member, a legal practitioner, he must know that if this is true, there must be many successful prosecutions brought against the Police for assault and violence. I think it is very irresponsible and very unfair to the Police for him to come here and make allegations that the Police are resorting to violence. Where are his facts? If Members had heard him, this is what he said, "I hear of increasing stories. I hear people telling me this." In other words, Sir, 

 the easiest allegation one can make against the Police, and it is a reckless way of ridiculing the Police in any country, is to spread a rumour alleging that the Police engage in violence. Within the Police, there are strict checks and safeguards to investigate any allegation of assault. As the Minister for Home Affairs, let me say that not only the Police but the Ministry also takes a very serious view of any allegation of assault and investigates it. Why? Because the Police will not and do not condone or tolerate any black sheep in their midst who perpetrate acts of violence, and we will want to weed them out of the Police Force. Having said that, I think the Member for Anson has done disservice by coming here and, solely on hearsay evidence, mind you, and together with the Member for Potong Pasir, criticized the Internal Security Act on allegations of hearsay evidence. He comes here on hearsay evidence and tarnishes the entire Police Force, saying that violence is rampant. I think it is totally uncalled for and a totally irresponsible act. 

  hoiyung: Be patient, Member for Anson. The Minister of State will reply. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir has the quotations which he claimed to recite earlier on, let us have the quotations and we can have a debate on another day. 

    Sir, I would like now to come to the point raised by the Member for Anson about this so-called innocent worker returning home past midnight, and was suddenly arrested and brought to a police station for not having an identity card. The Member for Anson said that he was not allowed to contact anybody in his family. If the Member for Anson is so certain of his details, should he not perhaps provide us in this House with the details, with the facts of the case so that a proper investigation can be carried out, rather than making accusations and repeating hearsays in this chamber. 

  hoiyung: A full investigation is always undertaken whenever there is an allegation of wrongdoing against the Police. Let me assure Members of this House, whether this allegation comes from the Member for Anson or from any 

  Mr Speaker: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I start off first by saying that the points raised by the Member for Anson will be met fully during the 10 minutes that I have. But I would like to make the observation that although the Member for Anson says he does not have the intention of smearing the Police, in effect that is what he is doing because for the past 20 minutes he has constructed an edifice of wrongful detention based on what? Allegations, to use the word that he used, "allegations" and nothing more than allegations. I would have thought that, as a responsible Member, he would have written to me or to the Ministry of Home Affairs --- 

  Prof. Jayakumar: He has never written to us. Therefore, he has come here on nothing more than just, to use his word, "allegations". He wants to know whether I have personally studied the case, which he could have found out if he had written to us. Therefore, I think it is not only a smear on the Police, but it is really an irresponsible action. And in order for me to meet it, I would have to go to the extent of revealing what I know about the record of this particular person, and the responsibility must lie on the Member for Anson for my having to do that, however much it may embarrass the family and the subject. He is really alleging wrongful detention. Of course, Parliament is not the forum for that, although I would nevertheless proceed to answer his point. The points that he has made here have already been put by counsel to the relevant authorities and to the Advisory Committee. Perhaps he is trying to prove he is better than the other counsel. 

    Basically, Sir, the Member for Anson's point is that this detention really had no grounds because the allegation is that this criminal law detention was motivated by the Police and nothing more than a retaliation against the complaint of assault brought against the Police by the subject. 

    Sir, let me first clarify the impression of the Member for Anson. The first time this subject was involved with the law was on 21st November 1984. On 3rd December 1980, when the subject, David Tan, was 12 years and nine months, a school student, he was arrested and convicted for rioting with dangerous weapons. Under Section 148, Chapter 103, he was convicted and presumably because of his age and it being his first offence, he was placed on two years' probation on 13th January 1981. 

    Now, we come to 21st November 1984 which was his next brush with the law. He and others were arrested, not under criminal law, but under the Societies Act and were questioned for secret society involvement. They were released. Next day, 22nd November, a report was made against two detectives for assault at the Tanglin Police Station. Unlike what the Member for Anson presumes and assumes that nothing was done, the Internal Investigations Section investigated. But on 28th November, his parents decided, I guess, to lodge a complaint in the Subordinate Courts. The Police action then was in abeyance because of the court action. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, can the Member for Anson prevent his rude and gutter-like interruptions? 

 legitimate pressure groups do have a say in our domestic affairs.".' - (hoiyung: Sir, I stand up to reject the amendment standing in the name of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, in support of his amendment he has stated that if he believes that there is interference in our domestic affairs, he will join us in condemning the interference or those who perpetrate the interference. However, up to now, despite the exposure given, the Member for Potong Pasir is still not convinced. Sir, I do not know what it takes to convince him but I thought that the systematic chronology of events and activities disclosed by the Minister for Trade and Industry on Wednesday was more than adequate. Perhaps he is not comfortable because the United States is a friend and why would a friend interfere in such a manner? Sir, he is perplexed perhaps because he does not think that there is an apparent motive. 

    Many of my colleagues here have given reasons for the interference, stretching from self-interest to a belief that what is good for America is good for the world. Sir, included in some of the explanations is the philosophy of human rights and how such a philosophy has affected America's foreign policies. Perhaps if the Member for Potong Pasir does not believe us, let me quote from an eminent American scholar, one Dr. Russell Kirk. He is a distinguished fellow of the Heritage Foundation and a scholar of more than 40 years in political writings, foreign affairs and the such. Furthermore, he is also the recipient of 12 honorary Doctorates and many more such honours. Sir, in his book entitled, "The Wise Men know what wicked things are written on the sky", he has a chapter on Human Rights. It is a very interesting chapter, and I quote from this particular chapter: 

    Sir, part of the argument put up by the Member for Potong Pasir has been that the official line of the US has been accepted by the Singapore Government. That means the interference was done by some errant diplomats and bureaucrats and that the US government has absolutely no intention to interfere in the domestic affairs of Singapore. Of course, Sir, the Singapore Government has accepted it. Sir, he has made much of this acceptance and, based on this acceptance, the Member for Potong Pasir has concluded that there was no interference. 

  hoiyung: Sir, it is a matter of opinion. However, let me continue, Sir. [hoiyung: Stop interrupting, Mr Chiam. Please, carry on, Mr Heng. 

    Sir, the clear crux of the matter is that this is Singapore and who should define what would be considered as political domestic inteference. We or the Americans? I think the answer here is quite evident. Therefore, I would like to ask: how can the Member for Potong Pasir ask this House, ask all Singaporeans to support his amendment to "reject the government's action against alleged subversive activities"? Sir, alleged? Even when they have been so completely exposed? Truly, now I understand the saying, "None are so blind as those with eyes but cannot see." 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir had also asked in one of his comments earlier in the House what was wrong with the US type of democracy for Singapore. I think there are many things wrong. But let me just quote from Dr. Russell Kirk again. 

    The American system may be good for them but I believe that our system is good for us. Both our systems grew out of our own peculiar experiences. Even an American more eminent than the Member for Potong Pasir acknowledges this fact and I hope that he will do so too. 

  Mr Ng Kah Ting (Punggol): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to urge this House to reject in toto the Member for Potong Pasir's amendment to the motion standing in the name of the Member for Braddell Heights. The Member for Potong Pasir calls it an 

    Sir, we are an open society and we subscribe to open debate. Therefore, we give him full opportunity to debate his amendment. In moving his amendment yesterday, Sir, the Member spent the better part of his time to quote from the newspapers. He had nothing to offer nor did he make anything substantive. But I have several questions to ask of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    First, why does the Member for Potong Pasir persist in making reference to "alleged subversive activities"? Surely he can read and comprehend the numerous statutory declarations and Government statements reproduced in the local newspapers. If not, surely he can understand the news readers of the Singapore Broadcasting Corporation (SBC), that is to say, if he watches television. Anyone with commonsense can see that the disclosures so far have shown that the Singapore Government has acted justifiably in the interests of the security of Singapore. No one, including the US government, has challenged the truth of the disclosures. 

    I am not for one moment suggesting that the Member for Potong Pasir has no commonsense. Perhaps he has a short memory. Let me refresh his memory and draw his attention once again to paragraphs 25, 26 and 27 of the Press Statement released by the Government on Friday, 20th May 1988, and I do not wish to belabour the House with repeating what is stated in the three paragraphs. 

    In my view, Sir, it is clear from the statement that the US government says that Mr Hendrickson and some US State Department officials have done nothing wrong. Therefore, I would like to assert that it is very important that the people of Singapore will have to take a sharp second look at all American embassy officers here from now on. In this respect, I would ask the Member for Potong Pasir: does he agree to the US State Department's statement and therefore allow the Russians to do likewise? Similarly, Sir, the Chinese, should diplomatic relations between Singapore and the People's Republic of China be established at some future date. Please say yes or no. In the same manner, I would ask of our US friends the same question. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, let me remind the Member for Potong Pasir that the "written communication" referred to in paragraph 26 of the press statement was a letter from none other than the US Secretary of State, Mr George Shultz. He has read it. He knows about it. I would therefore ask him, where in paragraphs 26 and 27 of the press statement is there a denial by the US government of the actions of its diplomat and State Department officials? I think the Singapore Government has tackled the matter with more restraint than the matter deserved. I made this point two days ago here in this House when I spoke in full support of the main motion. If the Member for Potong Pasir has the interests of Singapore at heart, he should ask the US government what disciplinary action it will take against its errant diplomat and State Department officials. 

    Secondly, what action has the Government taken against foreign interest groups? I ask the Member for Potong Pasir 

    Thirdly, Sir, what does the Member for Potong Pasir mean by calling upon the Government to be "more open and tolerant"? He has used vague words. What is the meaning of "open and tolerant"? May I ask how open and how tolerant? I have said we are an open society and we debate openly. What more does he want? 

    Fourthly, what "legitimate pressure groups" is the Member for Potong Pasir referring to? Does he have a list of it? Can he name these groups? Is he advocating that the Singapore Government allows groups of people who are not the elected representatives of Singapore to help the Government govern the nation? It is a well-known fact that pressure groups have always lobbied in their own interest which may not be in the interest of Singapore. The Government may hear them out but the Government is not obliged to agree with them. 

    Let me remind the Member the oath of allegiance he made before taking up his seat in this House. He swore to protect and defend the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore. Therefore, by asking the pressure groups to be given a say in our domestic politics, I think he has forgotten the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore. I am therefore shocked and utterly disheartened at the line taken by him. He is a lawyer. I am not. He should know better. It is totally repugnant to our Constitution to say that pressure groups should be given a say in the government of Singapore. Surely, Sir, the task of governing Singapore lies with the elected representatives of the people of Singapore and nobody else. This is our parliamentary democratic system. Let us be clear about this. It is by this parliamentary democratic system that the Member for Potong Pasir 

    Let me ask the Member for Potong Pasir this. Is he proposing the amendment in good faith and in the interests of Singapore or is it in the interests of the Singapore Democratic Party, his party? Only he can answer. 

    Finally, Mr Speaker, Sir, let me place on record my regret and disappointment in the Member for Potong Pasir as his amendment is repugnant to the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, please let Mr Ng finish what he wants to say. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am afraid I have to liken the Member for Potong Pasir to an ostrich burying its head in the sand. When he mentioned that the Russians and the People's Republic of China are communists, Ah, here we see the interesting line. The Russians have got their embassy here. They have also their interests here - banking, and so on. So has the Chinese indirectly to trade, even though we have not established full diplomatic relations. They also have got interests. So will you allow this gross interference in the domestic affairs of Singapore? He has not answered the question. He has been beating about the bush, talking about extracting a statutory declaration under duress, and so on and so forth which is totally different. He is merely not able to answer my question, Sir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I hope you are not going to repeat what you have said. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, to talk about making friends, the Member for Potong Pasir would be the first one I would like to make friends with because he is very straightforward and very generous with his words. But his amendment, I should say, is rather unspeakable. I feel hard, uncomfortable, criticizing his amendment because this is not a small matter. We are talking of major countries, super powers interfering in our internal affairs. It is a matter of big fish eating small fish, a reality in this world. The Singapore Government is not so foolish as to fight against a super power. I would stress that Singapore has been independent for about 30 years because we go according to law, abiding by the law. 

    In future, 30 years hereafter, we may be faced with greater challenges, but I believe what F.D. Roosevelt said in1933. He said: "The only thing we have to fear is fear itself." So if you fear anything, you could not deal with anything. So, on these matters we talk of law, we talk of reason and talk of mutual relationship, and will go about things in this manner, it is good for us. If the Americans do not go by the same method, then leave them alone. So be it. I believe Singaporeans after this experience, will have learnt something more and acquired certain safeguard and it will be better for our future. Therefore, I insist that Parliament rejects the amendment by the Member for Potong Pasir. Thank you. 

    I assume the Member for Potong Pasir is 

    Thirty three years after those tumultuous events, I have the rare privilege of listening to the Member for Potong Pasir espouse the vestal virgin line - "We are all innocent, above-board politicians. Prove it, if they are guilty. It is not enough that they signed a statutory declaration whilst under detention." If we accept his advice, even now, and release Chia Thye Poh and allow them to reorganize, Mr Chiam and his SDP would not last very long. 

    I said, "No, that's very difficult." He said, "Well, what do you want me to do?" I said, "Prove to me that you can give an order and a communist subordinate will obey. Get the City Council Member for Kallang to resign." He was a Workers' Party candidate. We knew he was part of the outfit. I then went to a Constitutional Conference in London in April/May, and when I was there I looked at the newspapers - he had resigned. It is a very creepy feeling you get. Here is a man 

    The Vatican is one of the oldest organizations in the world, 2,000 years of history. Its foreign office is one of the most competent in the world. And they sent our representative in the UN -because that is where the man who was present when I met the Pope had been sent - a third party note to explain the things they have done as a result of all this and why they hope that we will work together and restore serene conditions together with the Archbishop. I will release the document. I did not want to because I did not think it was necessary. But the Member for Potong Pasir by his motion believes that all this was a lark. It is not a lark. 

 Chinese and English. You have to be now because the Communists are going to be bilingual. He was a President's Scholar and a Colombo Plan Scholar. He is an industrial engineer with a First Class Degree from the University of Newcastle in Australia. He is in the Administrative Service and has been seconded to Intelligence for more than 12 years. Nobody wants to go into Intelligence. No Admin officer willingly goes. It is a tough job. Amongst other things, Special Branch Chiefs had been killed time and again. In Malaysia, Inspector-Generals of Police had been killed. Mr Tjong Yik Min took some time, discussed it thoroughly with his family, was finally persuaded to take it on. He has spent time both in internal intelligence, ISD, and in external intelligence in SID. His formal education in Intelligence - Marxism-Leninism, a course we run in Singapore; and in 1980, the United Kingdom course for Senior Security Intelligence Officers. He knows his job. If he did not know his job, we would be in trouble. We would never find out about Mr Hendrickson, would we? Or Mr Lambertson, or Mr Snyder, or Mr Colin Helmer. He was completely unfazed; there's a job to be done. Mr Patrick Seong is out. Why does the Member for Potong Pasir not ask him? Was he tortured, brutalized? Was he made to fabricate this? Did the ISD write this down and say, "Now, you say this." Are we mad? This is an honourable officer of the Admin Service, a man whose career, if he did not go into ISD, would take him up to a Permanent Secretaryship. Why should he do these things? He needed persuasion by Chairman, PSC. And I congratulated the Chairman. He is dead now. The Chairman shared a thought with me. He said, "I knew that his brother went back to China and had a very difficult time with the communists. So he is not in favour of communism." It was a good Chairman of the PSC who went through the whole list of the top ablest officers and picked him. And I stand by him. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir. We are now on the amendment moved by Mr Chiam. Perhaps we should put Mr Chiam's amendment to the vote first before the Member for Kaki Bukit speaks on the main motion. 

  Dr Augustine H.H. Tan (Whampoa): Sir, as I listened to the Member for Potong Pasir, I had to ask myself the question; who is the wronged party? Is it the United States or is it Singapore? And as I read the newspaper about the reactions of State Department officials, I ask the same question: did we do them wrong, or did they do wrong to us? Let us be very clear. 

    Finally, a word for the Member for Potong Pasir. Yesterday he mentioned that I paid him $6,000. I am glad he did. But I am not sure he will be glad he did shortly. 

 What I did shows very clearly that laws in Singapore apply to everybody, whether we are PAP MPs, opposition MPs. I was advised by Joe Grimberg whom I went to see that I should settle. I made one mistake. I thought he charged $200 for one letter but he said he wrote several letters. So I paid. I got into trouble defending a poor constituent of mine. But when the Prime Minister won his libel suits, he gave the money to charity. May I challenge the Member for Potong Pasir to give the same to charity, including the $1,000 I paid him for legal fees? $7,000 in total. I want him to reply to me, Sir. 

  hoiyung: It is a point of order. Can you sit down, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: I won't let him off so easily. We will take one issue at a time. I mentioned various groups. The Member for Potong Pasir the other day made a statement in the press that he considered the Marxist Conspiracy a laughable matter. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I mentioned one deficiency earlier on. But now I detect another deficiency - of hearing. I said things he never listened properly to and now he comes up and accuses me of all kinds of things. Of course, besides stable, good government, there were other factors. Yes, we are a hardworking people, like the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  Mr Speaker: What clarification do you want, Mr Chiam? 

    The fourth component of competitiveness is to make Singapore a better place to do business. The Member for Potong Pasir pointed out that Singapore is not Sri Lanka. He was absolutely right which is probably why the Member for Anson appeared to grimace when this was said. 

    The Committee of Selection, Mr Speaker, Sir, as you are well aware, appoints the other Committees of this House. I have no doubt that when the other Committees are appointed, I shall find myself in the glorified position of being a member to look after the comforts of Members, and I suppose my colleague, the Member for Potong Pasir, will be told, "You can deal with the Standing Orders whenever we want to look at that. Otherwise, thank you very much for your services and contributions." 

    In line 4, to leave out "Mr Chua Sian Chin" and there to insert "hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I object to the amendment put forward by the Member for Anson. While I have every respect for the Member for Potong Pasir, though he may not earn so much money as a lawyer and therefore, by the definition of the Member for Whampoa, he may not be such a good lawyer, I have more respect for my friend, the Member for MacPherson. 

    The Member for MacPherson, as you all know, has been in this House for a very long time, and for that I have more confidence in him. He is like what the Chinese called the shi tu lau ma (the old horse who knows the way). But what we have in the Member for Potong Pasir is chuan tze ma (it is a crazy horse). It will lead us to a crash. So we have got to be very careful when making selections for the Committees, especially when this Committee is such an important one, as the Member for Anson has said. So we should not put Members there just because they are Opposition Members. We should put Members there to serve a purpose, to see that they can contribute, and I have every confidence that my friend, the Member for MacPherson who sits next to me, will have a very great contribution to make in this Committee. 

    I think the Member for Anson is putting too much importance in themselves. Just because they are not there, we have less democracy in the House or less democracy in the Committee. Can you make people believe that? It is incredible, is it not? 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson, together with his colleague, cannot demand that they get equal representation in this Parliament. As I said, two does not equal 77. I was not aware, Mr Speaker, Sir, that the two of them were appointed by the PAP in order to give democracy a good name in Singapore. I want to very quickly tell the people of Singapore that we are not responsible for their appointment here. 

  The Minister for Finance, Minister for Education and Minister for Health (Dr Tony Tan Keng Yam): Mr Speaker, Sir, on Tuesday in the Debate on the estimates of the Ministry of Health in the Committee of Supply, the Member for Anson asked under what conditions was the private pharmacy allowed to be set up at the Singapore General Hospital. Sir, I quote from the Member's remarks which were telecast on television: 

    I said, Sir, on that day that I agreed with the First Deputy Prime Minister that the manner in which the Member had asked his questions was calculated to cast a slur on the Government implying that there was some wrongdoing. I would go further to-say that, in his attempt to discredit the Government, the Member for Anson has besmirched the reputations of innocent parties who, regrettably, are in the unfortunate position of not being able to be present in this House to clear their names. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has suggested that we should try to follow the examples of some other countries where they have subsidies for their public transportation service and, I believe, he quoted the example of Britain. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir also suggested that if we get our cars to move faster, there will be less traffic jams. I think 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has also raised the question of the funding for the MRT and, again in the process, he has distorted it. Sir, we have said many, many times that the Government has put aside capital grant for the building of the MRT and that passengers will not have to pay for it. Of course, we know that eventually, when the MRT is constructed and the MRT will be going into Marina South, the land value of Marina South will be greatly enhanced. This is because, as it is right now, it is like any other piece of reclaimed land. The density allowed for a piece of reclaimed land is dependent on a number of factors, one of which will be the accessibility for people to move in and out. If we want to house large numbers of people within a given area, there must be plans to show that the movement of people in and out of this area can be facilitated. With the MRT, that can be done easily, and hence it is expected that the plot ratios for Marina South will be very much higher than if there were no MRT. So passengers will not be asked to pay for the capital cost of the MRT, and that has been stated many, many times. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the plea for yellow-top taxis is something that the Member for Anson has raised year in and year out, again and again. The answer is still the same, no. The explanations have been given in greater detail to him on other occasions. It is not the intention of the Government to give taxi licences to individuals. This was done at the time to get out of a difficult situation when the taxi licence was used by unscrupulous people to create the Ali Baba system, where there were numerous proxy holders of taxi licences, where syndicates were using proxies to hold all these taxi licences. We do not intend to go back to those unpleasant days where taxi drivers were at the mercy of people of that sort. Hence the system will remain. 

    Sir, when the Member starts talking about numbers, he has to be very, very careful, because he can talk about numbers outside in mass rallies and most people will let him off, but when he starts talking about numbers in the House, it goes into Hansard. In Hansard of 4th March the Member for Potong Pasir did a calculation of taxi fares. Sir, with your permission, I would like to distribute the calculations of taxi fares. [Copies of Tables distributed to Members.] (Cols. 1689 - 1692) 

    Sir, in this Hansard (col. 176), the Member for Potong Pasir did a calculation on taxi fares. He took the ratio of $3.40 divide $2.40 X $1,200. Is the Member for Potong Pasir telling us that this is the level of his arithmetic -that the increase in fares only affects the net income of the taxi driver and not the gross takings of the taxi driver? He does not know that? Surely he does. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir has decided to make a political point by using fallacious calculations. And knowing straightaway that he has been caught, very quickly he ran to the ROV to seek a way out, hoping that all this will be covered up. Unfortunately for him, my instructions to ROV were, "No, I will give an explanation to the Member for Potong Pasir since he cannot do his calculations." And I will explain to Members of this House, including the Member for Potong Pasir, why his calculation is so ridiculous that anybody who is doing PSLE would know it to be wrong. That is why it is not possible that the Member for Potong Pasir could have made that mistake unintentionally. That was a deliberate attempt to distort the figures in order to create a scare in Singapore. 

    May I now, Sir, deal with the questions raised by the Member for Anson. He raised, I believe, four points. The first point related to junior officers acting in a higher grade. On this point, let me say that, in fact, the Civil Service has abolished acting 

  hoiyung: Well, sometimes that may arise due to exigencies of service. The second point the Member for Anson made, if I got him correctly, was that sergeants who are in Division III are paid Division II salaries. 

  hoiyung: I think there is a factual point to be established here. As far as my information is concerned, Sir, there is no such situation where a sergeant in Division III is paid Division II salary. So perhaps the Member for Anson could let me know of any specific instance, because my information is that the Sergeant's post is a Division III post and his salary is a Division III salary. So perhaps if he has information, he can take it up with my Ministry separately. His third point dealt with junior officers with HSC qualifications who were dissatisfied because they were promoted automatically to Inspectors, I believe. 

    Sir, the Member for Alexandra referred to the image of the Traffic Police. He complained of traffic policemen being sneaky, hiding behind bushes. It is a point raised on many other occasions. The general point being made is taken, namely, that the Traffic Police are a part of the whole police set-up and whatever I said just now about the importance of public relations, enlisting the support and cooperation of the public, applies also equally truly to the Traffic Police. But the Traffic Police and I have discussed this with Traffic officials from other countries. Traffic enforcement officials in all countries have this problem, so much so that in other countries the Police force tries to transfer the Traffic Police to some other Ministry, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so that this image problem can be eradicated. But, I think, in Singapore we will have to make sure that the public understand the reasons why we have to be strict in our enforcement. The Member for Alexandra has pointed out the figures. Education, preventive measures, campaigns, work to a point but where drivers are reckless, are errant, they need to be apprehended and charged for the offences. I would like to inform him that the directive given to the Traffic Police is not to hide behind bushes. As the Member for Anson says, "There may not be enough bushes!" 

    May I now, Sir, touch on the points raised by the Member for Anson, and I will deal with both his points on citizenship and permanent residence together. The points on fire safety raised by the Member for Ang Mo Kio and the Member for Serangoon Gardens will be dealt with by the Minister of State. 

    The Member for Anson's thesis boils down to this: that our citizenship laws and policies and our permanent residence laws and policies are such that we have separated families, that this demonstrates a lack of humanitarian and compassionate feelings, and that we have wilfully and deliberately brought about the separation. Sir, the point I would like to make is that our laws and policies are known and have been made known. As to the cases that he mentioned, individual cases, it will be difficult for me to reply to them here without detailed information. But from the recitation of the facts that he made, it appears that most of them are work permit cases. 

    The Member for Anson, on other occasions, has said that Singapore is a place where there is oppression, lack of rights, lack of freedoms. Nevertheless, there are hundreds of thousands of people who want to come to Singapore. Now, can we allow every one who wants to come? The answer is no. We are a small country with limited resources. The Minister for National Development, the other day, told us that there is almost no more land to build HDB flats. In these circumstances, as Minister for Home Affairs, it will be foolhardy for me to adopt a policy which is liberal and lets in everyone. This is the first point that I want to make. 

 Member for Anson, is that we have not wilfully separated families whom we have allowed to form in our country. Work permit holders are put on notice well ahead of time that when they get a work permit there are certain conditions attached to the possession of a work permit. A work permit is intended to allow them to come to Singapore to work temporarily and they intend to go back. That is very clear. They are also told in advance that if they want to marry and sink roots here, they would have to get the permission of the relevant authority which is the Commissioner for Employment of the Ministry of Labour. Now, why do we do this? I do not like as Minister for Home Affairs to expel anyone. Why should I? It is because we do not want Singapore to suffer the same consequences as some of the Western European countries do. They are saddled with an enormous problem of migrant workers who came, who were supposed to be temporary workers but have settled down permanently, with wives and children. We cannot afford to have that. We have learnt from the experiences of other countries and we have introduced these measures and controls precisely to avoid the problems faced by Western European countries. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson surely must know that a - 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, as I say, we make no bones about the fact that we have strict immigration policies and strict citizenship policies. The question for Singaporeans to ask is that if we did not do so, then are we prepared to let hundreds of thousands of foreigners come to Singapore and overburden our facilities and resources? Our policies strike good balance between two criteria. One, the person who comes to Singapore must be able to contribute to our skills, talent, economic advancement, Under that scheme persons are granted permanent residence. But at the same time, wives, children, dependants of Singapore citizens are also admitted and, contrary to what the Member for Anson says, it is not for the rich. It cuts across all categories - wives, children and dependants. The only criterion is, we want to ascertain that they will be maintained and looked after by somebody in Singapore so that they would not become a burden to the State. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is impossible for me to comment on the specifics of the case. Has the Member for Anson written to the Ministry on this particular case? 

 dreds of letters every month. Naturally, all of them are not referred to me. I cannot comment on the specifics of the case. The Member for Anson, if he feels a serious breach of laws has taken place, can write to me about this case. 

  hoiyung: As usual, Sir, the Member for Anson has only one side of a coin. He does not have the full coin, so he is usually short-changed by his constituents. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, since after I spoke, the Member for Anson has raised the question of the legality of the condition. Let me inform Members of the House that work permits are given on certain conditions. There are many conditions: health conditions, immigration conditions, types of work they have to perform, prohibition of certain activities. And it is fully within the legal powers of the Ministry of Labour to impose the condition that a work permit holder shall not marry without permission. 

 efficiently, more swiftly and more responsively than the private sector can. If it were not so, we would be happy to allow any private sector individual or organization, including the Singapore Democratic Party, to take a piece of land, build and compete with the JTC. [hoiyung: You are serious about it? 

  Dr Augustine Tan: For the Member for Potong Pasir, I recommend Peptobismal for his indigestion! 

    I know there are some local firms which have difficulty and I think the EDB is not unsympathetic. They should approach EDB and persuade it that they are upgrading and they are supporting industries, for example, and persuade EDB to support them. Then it would be much easier for my Ministry. We will approve it. There are, of course, other ways for them as well. I have mentioned that they can try and recruit better qualified workers, those with five '0' levels. We will admit them to any sector of the economy, including the hairdressing salons mentioned by the Member for Potong Pasir. We also allow those who are already here to stay. We do not chase them away. They can change jobs either within the sector or from the non-approved sectors to the approved sectors. But they must make sure that they apply for a work permit within one month of giving up the old one. Otherwise, they will be treated as new applications. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has, I think, shown from what he said that he has understood the foreign workers' policy, except for one point. He said that we do not allow the service sector to recruit foreign workers. That is not true as a general statement, because the hotel sector is allowed and it is a service industry. Shipyards are allowed. It is also a service industry. And there could be other types of service industries, like aircraft servicing and so on. But for the other sectors, like banking and retail trade, we have our doubts because they have been able to get foreign workers, especially the banks, and the retail sector, is domestic-oriented. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Potong Pasir has got to make a distinction between the quantum of deposit and the purpose of the Bill. We could very well not come to this House and increase the deposit to $4,000, then there will be no Bill presented to this House. He has got to understand the purpose of the Bill which, as I explained, was to simplify a procedure which means that there is no need for periodic reviews and there will be no oversight as there was in 1984 when the deposit should have been increased to match the MP's allowance. 

    Suppose, for the sake of argument, the Bill stipulates 2% of the MP's allowances instead of 8%, and that is roughly equivalent to $1,500. Would the Member for Potong Pasir oppose the Bill? [Pause.] Do you get the point? In other words, I use $1,500 to compute the percentage. Would you then object to the formula? 

    As to why we chose 8%, I have given the reason in my speech and that was to make right an anomaly, and that anomaly was the gap between the deposit and the MP's allowance. As the Member for Potong Pasir himself has just said, we should discourage frivolous candidates in elections. One hundred candidates per constituency in Britain - I do not believe he got the number correct, but that was his figure. And indeed if you drop your deposit to a small sum, we may attract not hundreds but perhaps scores of candidates who think that standing for elections is like buying a lottery. You put in a dollar and if you are lucky you may be returned. Even if you are not returned as an MP, the two weeks' publicity for a lawyer, I think, is worth it. 

    May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir whether he has any difficulty in finding $4,000 in the coming elections? Does it make it more difficult for SDP to find candidates? He is looking for an excuse for 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I think you are making another speech. Your clarification is long enough. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, what the Member for Potong Pasir is quarrelling is, in fact, not the formula but the quantum, that is, the 8%, not the formula itself. I have asked the Member whether the increase in deposit from $1,500 to $4,000 will prevent him from standing in the coming elections. If it does, 

    A central agency must be strict and must be uniform in its decisions. It cannot exercise flexibility nor make quick decisions at the constituency level. If it is generous in one constituency, other constituencies will demand equal treatment. When some constituencies have PAP MPs and others Opposition MPs, it is even harder to be flexible without being accused of bias. Even being fair can lead to complaints of bias. Take, for example, the Member for Potong Pasir. When he was not allowed to plant a tree in Potong Pasir where he wanted, he complained loudly that HDB was biased, even though no other MP has been allowed to plant a tree wherever he wants to. 

    It should be up to the Member for Potong Pasir to decide where he wants to plant that "very rare, exotic tree". I do not know whether he still remembers the name of the tree. What was that? I think it is called Sterculia Nobilis. Am I right? But seriously, it is up to him to decide which tree he wants to plant in Potong Pasir and where he wants to plant it. Or even to rear chickens if he likes in Potong Pasir, and not to waste the time of MPs in Parliament debating over such matters. Short of any hazards to public health, public safety, and public order, why should the HDB be involved? 

  hoiyung: So the Member for Potong Pasir supports this point. 

    Town Councils should provide this missing stabilizer to trim sudden, temporary drastic swings. With Town Councils, it will matter more to the voter who his MP is. His MP will head the Town Council which looks after his living environment. Because of this, voters will have a stronger incentive to vote carefully and sincerely, ie, for the person and the party who they think they can depend on to manage their constituency and look after the country as well, whether it is the PAP, the SDP or the Workers' Party. 

    I do not know the views of the Member for Potong Pasir on Town Councils. But he should welcome this Bill. It adds stability to the political system, but more important for him, it also benefits Opposition parties. The more power and responsibility MPs are given at the constituency level, the more the Opposition parties can demonstrate to voters that they are worthy of trust and are ready to take on greater responsibilities. 

    Mr Chiam's authority is now limited in Potong Pasir. With Town Councils he will have more authority plus the opportunity to demonstrate his ability. That was how the PAP came to power - contesting the City Councils in December 1957 and going on to win the general elections in 1959. This is also how many French politicians make their way to Parliament, by getting themselves elected as Town Councillors. 

    On election night in 1984, when the Member for Potong Pasir was elected, he said that he would make Potong Pasir a model constituency. I have not read that he has succeeded. 

    The question by the Member for Potong Pasir is premature. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is wrong. The PAP has a mandate to amend the Constitution except for Part III of the Constitution, because it has two-thirds, or more than two-thirds, of the number of representatives in Parliament. The only situation when we need to go for a referendum is clearly spelt out in the Constitution, and that is under Part III, Protection of the Sovereignty of the Republic of Singapore. That section in the Constitution spells out clearly that a referendum is required 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do ask your supplementary question. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has not understood my answer. As I explained just now, this question was premature. I was answering his point on the need for a referendum on the concept of team MPs. I do not think we should stray into a debate on the concept of team MPs because discussions are still underway amongst PAP MPs, amongst ourselves and members of the public, and no legislation has been put forward to this House yet for a debate. His point of view can be argued in this House when legislation is presented to this House. But for today, I have answered his question on the need of a referendum on this particular concept. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam. Order. Would you please ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, will you please ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think it is pointless pursuing the debate on this line. I suggest the Member for Potong Pasir await the presentation of the Bill to Parliament, should we decide to proceed with the concept of team MPs. Then we can have a full debate at the proper time, including the need for a referendum. Once you understand the concept, you can debate it with much more clarity than today. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the Member for Potong Pasir is quite confused. I shall try to enlighten him. 

    Sir, another point I wish to raise is that the Member for Potong Pasir made a big issue on the proposal to defer the withdrawal age of CPF contributions. He demanded whether the Government had consulted the people. Recently, he had the audacity to propose that CPF contributions be reduced from 50% to 40%. Is he aware that CPF contributions is part of a worker's wages? Whatever the percentage quantum he proposed to reduce from an employer's contribution amounts to a reduction in wages in the same percentage terms for the worker. Did the Member for Potong Pasir consult the people or the workers of Singapore that they support or agree to his proposal? How will a 10% reduction in CPF contribution, as envisaged by him, benefit the workers of Singapore? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also claimed that CPF contributors can afford to purchase HDB flats even with a reduction in CPF contributions from 50% to 40%. In the recent general election, members of Opposition parties also maintained that the people would eventually not be able to afford to purchase HDB flats based on current CPF contributions of 50%. So I am questioning the validity of his argument that with a reduction of 10% a contributor could continue to afford to purchase a Housing Board flat, If we take a worker's gross salary as $600 (Why $600? The wage norm considered by the NWC last year was $680. So I just round it up to $600) and based on 40% CPF contribution, as suggested by the Member for Potong Pasir, he will barely make it if he purchased a 3-room flat in Woodlands or Yishun with a 20-year loan. 

    As we all are aware, most HDB lessees pay their monthly loan instalments with their monthly CPF contributions. Should a contributor choose a flat in Ang Mo Kio, Bedok, Tampines, then he has to make up the difference on his monthly instalment payment in cash. Furthermore, Sir, is the Member for Potong Pasir aware that the so-called increase in take-home pay for the workers is subject to income tax liability at the end of each year, and they also lose out by a similar amount in CPF savings? 

  Mr Goh Chee Wee (Boon Lay): Mr Speaker, Sir, many comments and suggestions have been put forward by Members of this House, and the members of the public regarding CPF contributions. The most unkind of them all, I believe, is the proposal advocated so strongly by the Member for Potong Pasir, ie, to reduce the CPF rate of contribution. 

  hoiyung: Sir, on a point of clarification. I would like to ask the Member for Potong Pasir how he proposes to reduce the CPF by 10%. Take it off the employer's contribution or the employee's contribution? 

  hoiyung: Sir, on a very important point of clarification. The Member for Potong Pasir has completely misunderstood the meaning of the Prime Minister's statement, The Prime Minister was not at all concerned with the ability of the CPF to pay because that was never a question. He was concerned with the fact that Singaporeans, especially younger Singaporeans, would have 20-25 years of good life after retirement at 55. How do we take care of that portion of a person's life when he retires at 55? Financial security is very important and the Prime Minister was addressing himself at the question of financial security for Singaporeans when they retire at 55. It has got no link whatsoever with the ability of CPF to pay. The Member for Potong Pasir should not belabour that point when, in fact, answers have been given in this House to prove that CPF has got the money to pay every cent of the CPF depositor whenever he wants to withdraw his funds. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, your 10 minutes are up. But I will give you another two minutes because of the interruptions. 

  hoiyung: Your time is up, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, I said your time is up. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: Thank you, Sir. I am pleased to note that the Member for Potong Pasir has now recognized that CPF has got the ability to pay. Earlier on, he has come out with figures to show that CPF did not have the ability to pay. I think it is a concession on his part and we are pleased to note that. 

 cation. Sir, I seek clarification from the Member for Potong Pasir regarding what he said earlier on the release of CPF Funds causing inflation and its relationship to, I quote, M1. I am very concerned, Sir, regarding CPF-induced inflation. If this is true, may I beg his indulgence and your indulgence, Sir, for, as a medical practitioner, I am confused with this relationship to M1. What is M1? Could he please clarify and, I hope, allay my fear. 

  The Chairman: Mr Chiam, you have a chance to speak a little bit more. 

    I think the Member for Potong Pasir is unnecessarily worried about effects of net CPF releases causing inflation in the Singapore economy. His concern is understandable but it is totally misplaced. Let me cite. M1 is defined as a narrow money supply indicator and represents only cash in circulation plus coins in circulation and current account deposits. When you talk about total money supply in Singapore, you really should be talking about M3 which includes fixed deposits, certificates of deposits, savings accounts and deposits in non-financial institutions such as finance companies. When we talk about this, the total amount currently in Singapore is $36 billion. In addition there are also considerable other financial assets available for investment by Singaporeans because the total stock market capitalization, as at the end of 1984, was $68 billion, of which $28 billion was accounted for by Singapore registered companies and about $40 billion by Malaysian companies. So there is even now no shortage of financial instruments for the prudent Singaporean to invest in, if he could lay his hands on the money. So that is one point. 

    Thirdly, even if the facts as stated by the Member for Potong Pasir were correct, that a $9 billion flows into the system in 15-20 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Mr Speaker, Sir, first, I would like to thank the Minister for Trade and Industry, who is the real expert here on financial matters, for explaining so clearly what the Member for Potong Pasir is completely ignorant about. I am sorry to have to say so. 

    If I may now turn, Sir, to one other point which the Member for Potong Pasir made this morning. It was his idea that we should reduce the CPF rate from 50% to 40%. He himself has confirmed that this reduction of 10% will come from the employer's portion as well as the employee's portion. This means that he is advocating a reduction in the wage packet of the ordinary worker. I do not think our Singaporean worker will thank him for it. As the Member for Toa Payoh has explained this morning, our Singaporean workers need this CPF money in order to pay for their HDB flats, and even at 50% rate they can barely make it to own a 3-room flat at Woodlands. If it were a 3-room flat in a more central location, already there will be a problem. And here, this Member for Potong Pasir is advocating that we should cut down the CPF rate. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of clarification. The Member stated that he wants to move away from the CPF issue. May I ask him a question whether he shares the same views as the Member for Potong Pasir on CPF, in particular with regard to the following points: (1) CPF Board will be unable to pay back in the near future; and (2) whether CPF withdrawals will be put in M1 and hence cause inflation? 

  Dr Ow Chin Hock: But he said he wanted to move away. I just want to ask him whether he shares the same views as the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  Mr Lim Boon Heng: Mr Speaker, Sir, before I speak, may I ask a point of clarification from the Member for Anson, whether the worker that he was referring to was a gentleman called Mr Chua Chwee Kay? 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson is predictable. We have heard his usual diatribe in this House about the - 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, may I ask again a point of clarification from the Member for Anson, what were the circumstances under which a letter of termination was issued to Mr Chua Chwee Kay? 

  Encik Yatiman Yusof (Kampong Kembangan): Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of clarification from the Member for Anson. The Member for Anson cited one case which he says that the worker has not been given a right and he goes round saying that that represents the condition under which workers in Singapore are placed under the PAP Government. Is he saying that one case represents hundreds of thousands of workers in Singapore? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think Members by now are very familiar with the story and the line that come out from the Member for Anson. Sir, there are always bad apples in any basket. I do not know why the Member is always associating himself with the bad apples and thereby generalizing that, "Oh, our laws are terrible, we are not looking after the workers' interest" and so forth, and making a big song and dance out of it. 

  hoiyung: Sir, may I say that the Member for Anson is completely wrong in his statement. The actual practice is - and I know of several cases which have come to my attention so far in my three months in the Ministry - that the employer's written submission is given to the employee, if need be. In fact, my 

    Sir, if one were to simply take the 1984 figures for the CPF, $5.4 billion was credited to the accounts of members. $3.5 billion was withdrawn, of which $2.7 billion was for housing. In other words, $3.5 billion was withdrawn last year out of a GNP of $38 billion. Let us put it roughly at 10%, without inflation. By the year 2000, if the Member for Potong Pasir's figures are correct, $9.5 billion withdrawal out of a GNP of probably $95 billion by the year 2000, again a figure of around 10%. So there is no reason why CPF withdrawal per se should cause any inflation. 

    As to the second question, as I explained a week ago, under the legal regime on adoption contained in the law as it stands at present, the court's function is guided primarily by the welfare of the child. The Immigration policy or the Immigration status is not a dominant or primary consideration. It is true, as the Member for Anson has said, that the procedure under the law for adoption is such that references are made to the Department of Social Welfare for investigation. But under the law, the Department of Social Welfare's investigation must be circumscribed by the duties imposed by the law, and the law requires the Social Welfare officers to look at the case and put up a report with regard to the interest and the welfare of the child. Whether the child is an illegal immigrant, or what his immigration status is, and so on, are not primary considerations. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, we are aware that we now have two Members of the Opposition in this House. They form about 2,2% of the House. The Committee of Selection has seven members, apart from the Speaker. I think 21/2% of seven makes not even one-quarter. However, Sir, we are intending to take into account, the points made by the Member for Anson. If you take all the parliamentary committees to be appointed, the number of Members will come to around 50 and we can justify one Member of the Opposition on one of the committees. It is our intention to have either one or perhaps even both in one or two committees of Parliament. 

    We have heard about visions of societies and we have been told that it can only be a vision if it is a vision that is shared by everybody. We in the Workers' Party want every citizen in Singapore to share in this vision, to feel that he has a part in it and that it is his own vision and not a vision that is imposed on him. I do not want to impose my idea of a society, my vision of a society, on the people of Singapore. All I want to do, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, is to engage all our people in this common search. 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Defence (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has spent about 20 minutes. I expected him to talk about his values of the society which he would like us to have. Instead he has gone on and on without elaborating on the kind of society which he would like to have. And I think the whole purpose of his long speech was simply to ask whether we would grant him a permit to hold a rally. I have not consulted the Minister for Home Affairs to check whether there is any security objections. But I can tell the Member for Anson that since this is a topic which he wants to discuss with his members and with members of the public, I would support the application for a permit to discuss the values of our society. 

  hoiyung: And every citizen, as the Member for Anson says. It is a matter which concerns every citizen. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson talked about dignity of human beings. Never in the last three or four years since December 1981 have I heard him talk about the duty and responsibility of the individual. A human being has got certain rights but he also brings with him certain duties and responsibilities to society. In other words, the emphasis is not just on the individual. It is on the larger unit, the individual's obligations to society. If the Member places so much emphasis on the dignity of the individual, so much respect for the individual, as a Member of Parliament, he should set a prime example as all of us should do. He should, for 

  hoiyung: All I want to say is, if the Member for Anson does not believe that he has smeared innocent people - 

  hoiyung: Again I am afraid Members of the Opposition, as manifested by the Member for Anson now, tend to distort and misinterpret the Prime Minister's words. 

  hoiyung: I can quote examples to the Member for Anson of western values which we must check, which we must toss overboard. And these values are the emphasis on self: me first, you last; me first, society second; the trend towards promiscuity, fun loving, free loving, kind of society. Those are values which we do not want to have. The values which we want to have are traditional values, values which bind us together as a cohesive society. We started off as a multi-racial society. Each one has got his own culture, his own language, his own religion. So what values do we want to have to ensure that we remain as such? These are values of tolerance, respect for each other's religion, respect for each other's language. We do not force Malays to speak Mandarin at home, neither do we force Chinese to speak Tamil at home. These are values of respect and tolerance for one another which we must continue to uphold in Singapore. They are part of the characteristics of our society. They are part of our character, a tolerant, disciplined, individual in a tolerant disciplined society. These are the values which we talk about. 

    The Member for Anson wants to have a discussion on this. I am not sure whether we welcome that. But we certainly welcome a discussion with members of the public. 

    What are the avenues? Besides the RCs, CCCs, we could have formal or informal exchanges. If Members like, and I am here addressing myself at Members other than Opposition Members, we can have a dicussion on TV. In fact, if the Member for Anson insists on having a debate, as he is insisting now, I think we can have Members here who may enjoy sitting down with him on a panel and discuss values over television. The Member for Queenstown is shaking his head. He does not want to be seen discussing with the Member for Anson. But it is a serious point. We want to reach out and discuss with all citizens on this. 

  The Chairman: Mr Lai is not here. Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Order. Your time is up, Mr Chiam. Yes, Mr Lim? 

    In discussing the CPF, we must never lose sight of its original and basic objective, that is, to provide for each member's old-age financial security. I think this point is not in dispute. Even the Member for Potong Pasir agrees with this point. 

    The same point was made but in a different vein by the Member for Potong Pasir. He said that the CPF is supposed to be the trustee of members' funds but members have no say on how the funds are used. The basic point is that the CPF is a compulsory savings scheme. If you leave it to the individual, he may not save enough for his own old-age needs. Therefore, the Government has to implement the scheme and make sure that the purposes are kept to its original objective as far as possible; and that the schemes are beneficial to the country as a whole, not just because many people want to have them. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir quoted the Prime Minister's speech and gave some figures on how much people would have in their CPF in future. The important point he needs to mention is that this is for future young CPF members who are starting work from now. If the economy continues to do well and there is no world crash, this is what will be the final position. But as of now, most of the CPF members have very low savings. I mentioned the figure of 85% having less than $40,000, and these are the parents who are being asked to support their children through local university or through overseas universities. Concerning local university we already know the position. It is very affordable to most parents. This is shown by the fact that very few of them need to apply for the Government loan. In fact, I do not know how many parents realize that the loan is interest-free before graduation. Previously when the loan was introduced by the Ministry of Education, the announcement was that it would be pegged to a certain bank rate. Subsequently the Ministry reviewed the policy and decided it would be interest-free. So it is, in fact, a very attractive scheme that is available for all those who can gain admission to the local university. 

  Mr Lee Yock Suan: Sir, I can see from what the Member for Boon Lay has told us that there has, in fact, been some confusion and I must say he is not the only one confused because, from the line of questioning of the Member for Potong Pasir, I think he too is confused. I do not blame any of you because there are different departments dealing with this matter and so I should try and explain clearly what the situation is. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this policy has been in existence since 1973. And you will be surprised that most of the foreign workers are well aware of the policy. But of course the Member for Potong Pasir has been here for only about three years. We cannot expect him to know all the policies. So gradually we will have to explain to him. 

    Another important aspect of the Town Council is the test of the administrative and leadership qualities of the Member of Parliament. The Member for Potong Pasir in his long rambling speech, I think, wants to avoid this very issue. The Member of Parliament has a number of roles to play, 

 including as the Member for Potong Pasir rightly mentioned, at the national level. But he is, first and foremost, a representative of the voters, of the constituency. He therefore has a vital role to play at the constituency level. The Member of Parliament as the Chairman of a Town Council will play that vital role. And voters have every right to ask the Member of Parliament: has the Member of Parliament the administrative ability to run a town? Has he the leadership to provide encouragement, guidance and advice, so that the Town Councillors will make the correct decisions which will benefit the people? 

    Sir, you need capable persons to be Members of Parliament. I think voters should note carefully what the Member for Potong Pasir has just said. In his view, Members of Parliament can come from construction workers, taxi drivers, factory workers and others. I ask him: is he going to field such candidates in the next general elections? 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is quite good at showmanship, coming to Parliament, raising questions, criticizing the Government, making speeches and generally playing up to the gallery. Yes, he can be critical of the HDB. But he has no responsibility at all for the running of the Town. He can come to Parliament, ask all kinds of questions but he does not have to find solutions to these problems. This is a very easy thing to do. But after the next elections, Members of Parliament cannot be irresponsible MPs because they have to run the Town Councils. Then the capability, dedication and reliability of the MPs will be put to the test. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, what is your clarification? 

  hoiyung: I hope the Member for Potong Pasir will read carefully the Bill. The Bill allows for the Town Council to control, manage, maintain and improve --- 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if I may respond very briefly to some of the substantive points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. I do not think we should dismiss his speech lightly because he has made some points which, in fact, we have considered seriously in deciding on the Town Councils Bill. 

    The key point is whether an MP operating at a national level, looking after the whole country, should also have a responsibility to manage his own constituency which elected him. The Member for Potong Pasir presented the opposing view, that he should not. The Member of Parliament looks after national matters. He pontificates on issues of wide importance. He debates in Parliament, and leaves these trivial, frivolous, municipal, bothersome issues to specialists. There is an element of truth there. But it is not de facto what happens. 

 Budget, the Minister for National Development is the champion marathon runner, because he answers five times as many questions on which there are five times as many experts in this House as any other Minister. Everybody knows it. Everybody wants his answer and presses his point. And it is not just at Budget time, but at every Parliament sitting. Just look at the Questions for Oral Answer, and tabulate. Stations, bus services, roof leakage, traffic lights, location of wet markets. Which MP is not concerned? Even the Member for Potong Pasir. He has forgotten now, but the night he was elected, I remember watching him on television. He said, "We shall make Potong Pasir a model constituency." 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: But the HDB is not. So is it better to leave the decision with the HDB or is it better to devolve it out? I think it is better to devolve it out. I know that many MPs will be hesitant because it is a major responsibility, both PAP as well as Opposition. None expresses his fears so openly and unashamedly as the Member for Potong Pasir. But many are concerned at the additional load which they will now take on. Luckily, I do not think they will have to take it on alone. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir says we should give responsibility to people who know the job. Taxi drivers know about taxis, workers know about conditions in their factory. He is right. Who knows best about conditions in the housing estate? 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Or if he is Mr Chiam, I am sure he is not going to appoint any PAP supporters. Is he? 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, can you please stop engaging in this conversation with the General? If you have anything to say, could you address the Chair. 

  Mr Chew Heng Ching (Kaki Bukit): Sir, I rise to support the Bill. I am surprised at the stand adopted by the Member for Potong Pasir. He is not in favour of the Bill. If he is a serious opposition Member, he should capitalize on the Bill as it gives him the opportunity to run local estates, establish track records and perhaps govern Singapore one day. Does not the SDP have a long-term plan to be the alternative government of Singapore one day? Is the SDP not confident of running Town Council estates as well as PAP MPs? 

    I am surprised that the Member for Potong Pasir is unprepared to do this, and that now what he means by a model constituency is that he should be the Member of Parliament and the Government should do it for him. Now if the Government is not going to do it for him, the residents should do it for him. That is what he is saying in his half-hour speech. 

  The Minister for National Development (Mr S. Dhanabalan): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I thank the Members for their comments on this Bill. I note that, with the exception of the Member for Potong Pasir, all the Members are in support of the principles and the philosophy behind the Bill. The kinds of problems that they have raised really relate to the detailed workings of the Town Council. Some of the problems have cropped up in the pilot projects; others are being anticipated by Members. 

    Since the Member for Potong Pasir is the only one who has, in fact, raised the question of the basic philosophy behind the Bill, perhaps I should deal with that first. He made the point that the main reason behind the Bill is a political one. I have made it clear yesterday in moving the Second Reading of this Bill that there are two purposes behind this Bill. One, of course is to enable residents in Housing Board estates to determine for themselves the kind of environment that they want to create. I said there was also an important political reason behind it, and the First Deputy Prime Minister spent much time, in fact, he made a longer speech than I did, explaining the political philosophy behind this Bill. So we are not trying to slip in the reasons behind the Bill quietly with a paragraph in my speech. We drew attention of the House as well as Singaporeans to the basic thrust of the Bill. 

    The question really is not whether or not there is a political purpose. The question is: is the purpose a good one for Singapore? Will it make for a better Singapore? Will it make for a more stable and secure Singapore? Will it make for a better life for our citizens? That is the question that we ought to ask. And I am surprised that the Member for Potong Pasir never addressed these questions. All he said was, "There is a political reason." So what? Does a political reason necessarily make the Bill a bad Bill, a law bad for Singaporeans? We went to some extent to explain why it is absolutely essential that Singaporeans should be made to think carefully before they cast their vote, that they should vote sincerely and ask themselves very clearly what is in their interest, and not allow temporary misgivings or dissatisfactions with the Government to cloud the issue. We make this very clear and we stand by it. 

    I was quite dumbfounded when the Member for Potong Pasir said that the MP is an outsider in his constituency. Yes, he may live outside the constituency but surely the MP must know the problems, the aspirations of his constituents. He should be there several times a week, as Members of Parliament from the PAP do. They spend several times a week and they come to know in great detail the problems of their constituents. Who can better represent the problems in the daily life in Housing Board estates than the MP? That is the reason why we think that the 

    I will come back to the Member for Potong Pasir's detailed points that he raised after I have dealt with the points raised by other Members. 

  hoiyung: Sir, if the Member for Anson would like to tell me where these reports were made, I would like to have them looked into. Again, let me show some statistics to the Member for Anson since he is so imperceptive compared to our tailor friend. Here is a study made by the Health Ministry on the average height and weight of school children between the years 1970-73 and 1983. May I request the Clerk to distribute these tables (Cols. 211 - 212) to hon. Members. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson is so concerned about his constituents, I think he can do the survey for us. 

    Mindef does not condone ill-treatment of servicemen. If any Member of Parliament is aware of any ill-treatment case, I would urge him to inform Mindef about it as soon as possible, giving details of the case, so that Mindef can trace and investigate it promptly. If the Member for Anson wishes to seek further clarification on a specific case, he should table a question giving the particulars of the serviceman involved so that a proper answer can be given based on the facts of the case. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has mentioned what he considers to be two possible threats to our security. He has dismissed them as being inconsequential. He implies that no other mishaps need to be prepared for. A responsible government must take a more cautious view. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I think there are other threats which perhaps have not been encompassed in the Member for Potong Pasir's formulation. I would remind him of another threat which was discussed in this 

 House and which was pointed out by the Member for Anson, again before the last General Elections, and that is, the possibility of aircraft carriers sailing into our harbour and "what can we do about it", in the words of the Member for Anson. I am not saying that that is a plausible threat. I am merely reminding the Member for Potong Pasir that there are more possibilities than those that he has considered. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, can I have your supplementary question? 

  Mr Speaker: Can I have your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? 

    I would like to inform the Member for Anson that the warrant of arrest against Phey Yew Kok is still in force and he remains on the wanted list of all the Interpol member countries. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson mentioned that he was informed at the last Parliament that Phey Yew Kok was still in a neighbouring country. I would like to point out to him that the House was actually informed that, as far as the Police investigation was concerned, he was traced to have left Singapore on 31st December 1979, proceeding to Kuala Lumpur, and from there on he was understood to have left for Thailand. And from there on the trail disappeared. 

    The Police does not have any information at the present moment on the whereabouts of Phey Yew Kok. But if the Member for Anson has any information which he thinks might be relevant to the case, he is welcome to assist the Police by supplying this information so that a detailed investigation and apprehension of Phey Yew Kok can be carried out. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, is the Member for Anson suggesting that we 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not aware of what has been done in other cases in terms of surveillance of the letters and correspondence. I do not know what the Member for Anson is suggesting. If he has any facts in regard to such surveillance, he should bring these to the House. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson has a penchant for raising this case regularly. 

  Mr Speaker: I think the hon. Member for Anson is an expert on Erskine May. It is clearly stated in Erskine May, 20th Edition, on page 342: 

  Prof. S. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to inform Members that the Member for Anson has seriously misled the House when he made a complaint recently in the House of wrongful arrest and detention. 

    Sir, Members will recall that at our sitting on 18th March, the Member for Anson made the specific allegation that a person was arrested on 1st March at around midnight for not possessing an identity card and that he was locked up at the Police Station for about 15 hours, that is to say, into the following day, March 2nd. He also said that during this period, the person arrested had been prevented from contacting any member of his family. 

    He repeated this allegation in the House nine days later on 27th March. On the first occasion, I asked for particulars and I added that I would then cause an investigation. No particulars were given. When he repeated the allegation, my colleague, the Minister of State, again asked for particulars. Again, the Member did not give any particulars but did say that he, the Member for Anson, had made a report at Joo Chiat Police Station. 

    Nearly four weeks after the debate in this House, the Member for Anson finally wrote to me on 22nd April to provide the name of the person whom he claimed was arrested by the Police. He now alleged that his name was one Lim Poh Huat. In his letter, the Member for Anson repeated the allegation, namely, that Mr Lim Poh Huat had been arrested past midnight on 1st March, held in detention for 15 hours and released at about 3.00 pm the following 

    Sir, I asked the Police to let me see the report made by the Member for Anson at the Joo Chiat Police Station and I ordered a thorough investigation. I ordered a thorough investigation because I assumed that the Member would not have raised such an allegation without first satisfying himself that there was some credence to the claim. I assumed that he as a Member of Parliament would have at least established that it was a bona fide claim. I assumed, for example, that he would have spoken to Mr Lim Poh Huat or members of his family. If Mr Lim was married, then I assumed he would have spoken to his wife and children. If he was single, to his parents, brothers or sisters. 

    The second point which the inquiry has established is that the Member for Anson did not make any report whatsoever at the Joo Chiat Police Station as claimed by him. May I on this point, Mr Speaker, Sir, digress to say that when my colleague, the 

 Minister of State, wrote to the Member for Anson asking for details as to which officer he saw in the Joo Chiat Police Station, he responded by saying that, well, if he said that, he probably made a slip (of the tongue, I guess) and that he had sent a correction to the Clerk of Parliament. Whereupon we wrote to the Clerk of Parliament to ask what was the correction. And to our utter astonishment, we found that the Member tried to make a correction to change the words "I made a report at Joo Chiat Police Station" to "There should be a report at Joo Chiat Police Station." There is a world of difference between the two. The Clerk of Parliament informed us that the change had not been accepted. It is not surprising because it is a material change. And we would like to know why the Member for Anson tried to doctor the report in this manner. 

    Sir, coming back to the substance of the allegations. On three occasions the Minister of State replied to the Member's letters, stating categorically that there was no basis to his allegations. In his letter of 25th June, the Minister of State asked the Member for Anson: 

    But what the Member has done is to tarnish the image of the entire Police Force, and attempt to undermine public confidence in the Police without any excusable reason for so doing. The Member, as I have said, has not agreed to produce this Lim Poh Huat. I ask him now, can he and will he produce him? May I also ask the Member if he took any steps to ensure that there was indeed such a person, let alone one who suffered from unlawful detention. Sir, these are very important questions and I hope the Member for Anson will respond. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, what the Member for Anson has said is truly disturbing. He has attempted to wriggle out --- 

  hoiyung: And all that he has said is that he has a signed statement from someone whose integrity he respects. I would like to ask, first, whether the Member for Anson can tell us if this signed statement, if not from Mr Lim Poh Huat, which is what I take it to be, was from a member of Mr Lim Poh Huat's family? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson did not make a casual accusation, a casual complaint. The complaint was made on two different occasions and, to know the gravity of his charges, let me very quickly point out what is it that the Member for Anson is saying. 

    Such grave, serious accusations, when raised by hon. Members, surely must mean that the hon. Member must have taken some steps to verify the veracity of the claim before raising it here. I would like to know from the Member for Anson what steps did he take to ascertain the credibility and veracity of the complaint. Did he, for example, during these few months which have lapsed, speak to Mr Lim Poh Huat, speak to members of his family? Did he write to him? Did he telephone him? We want to know what are the steps he took to ascertain the veracity of the statement, apart from the so-called signed statement. And may I also ask whether the signed statement was made before or after the Member raised this question in this House? Because if he had the statement before he raised it, he could have very well informed us. I would like to know what is the date of that signed statement, and is he prepared to let the Police have that signed statement? 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have asked on at least two occasions what are the steps that he took to ascertain the veracity of the story. And all that he can reply is, he kept asking the person who made the statement to him. I asked if he was a member of the family? He was not. The Member for Anson, in other words, is telling us to accept as permissible the practice of any Member coming to this House on the basis of hearsay and third-person report, and on the basis of a rumour, which he has not ascertained or tried to verify, and make a complaint against any Government department of 

    The Member for Anson said that all he did was to be satisfied about the third person, not Lim Poh Huat, not any member of his family. In fact, what the Member for Anson is saying is that if I have an appointment with Mr X and Mr X does not turn up and I question him and he tells me a story that actually he had gone to see the Member for Anson (if he was a client of the Member for Anson) and he had gone to see the Member for Anson to 

 charge the Member for Anson for having pocketed his client's money, does that entitle me to come to this House to accuse the Member for Anson for pocketing client's monies? That is what this boils down to, and that is why I have asked the Member for Anson if he would apologize. I will give him one more opportunity as to whether he would apologize for having misled the House. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I can understand the Member for Anson's anxiety to sidetrack the whole issue. But we will not be sidetracked because my Ministry's position on the question of any possible contraventions of procedures have been fully answered and we fully answered his questions on 18th March 1986. 

    (2) deplores as dishonourable the conduct of the Member for Anson in pleading Parliamentary Privilege to evade having to give evidence on his allegations of Executive interference, allegations he had made on several occasions in this House, all of which were calculated to undermine confidence in the independence, impartiality and integrity of the Subordinate Courts Judiciary. 

 Member for Anson. It is not about the Opposition. It is not about freedom of speech. Then what is the issue? Sir, the issue concerns a far more grave, a far more serious matter. The issue is about fundamental institutions and basic values of our society, an issue concerning standards of political integrity. It is about irresponsible attempts to bring into total disrepute our major institutions to destroy the integrity and thereby undermine the stability of our society's key institutions. Every society has its key institutions and fundamental pillars. Chip away at them, bring about cracks, and the whole fabric of our society may be brought to ruin. 

    The Member for Anson's unfounded attack on the Judiciary is a clear example of this attack. His allegations, everyone must know and he must know, can have only two consequences. Within Singapore, it will undermine the confidence of our people in the integrity of our judicial system. And for persons abroad, it will undermine the confidence of investors who have multi -million-dollar investments and contracts in Singapore and who expect and who have a right to expect that disputes will be settled in accordance with the law, facts and evidence. 

    There is no shortage of foreign critics who want to join the Member for Anson in bringing such scurrilous accusations. Members will recall one foreign journal was in fact made to appear before the court for contempt of court and they apologized. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson's attack on the Judiciary is not the first or isolated instance. Ever since he became a Member of this House, he has embarked on a systematic strategy of maligning our basic fundamental values and institutions. (a) When he first came into this House, he made allegations of corruption against the Government. And when confronted and challenged, he quickly backed away and said that these were rumours. (b) He insinuated that there was some cover-up concerning Mr Phey Yew Kok. He wanted a commission of inquiry and was offered a commission of inquiry provided it did not prejudge mat- 

 ters before the courts, and he did not come back on the offer. (c) He has made totally unfounded allegations about the Police, abuse of powers, and this morning we showed that he fabricated the whole story and he withdrew the allegation. Not only that, he has also in this House persistently defamed the character of innocent persons outside this House, persons who are unable to defend themselves. And when challenged to repeat these allegations outside, he declined to do so. We remember his defamatory words about Mr S.R. Nathan. We remember his defamatory words about the Howe Yoon Chong family and, more recently, his scurrilous comments made about the Chief Justice. And when the Chief Justice, through the Prime Minister, asked that the Member for Anson repeat it outside, he did not do so. 

    The question, Sir, is this. When politicians, Members of the House, make such scurrilous statements about the Judiciary, should they be allowed to do so freely? We say no. Such scurrilous, scandalous, contemptible, statements must never be allowed to pass without the closest scrutiny. Once made, such serious allegations about the Judiciary must be scrutinized. The facts must be proven and the truth established. Why? Because, Mr Speaker, Sir, either the Member for Anson is dishonest and is lying or he, the accuser, is right which means that the Government is crooked. It is one or the other. It cannot be otherwise. 

    The public therefore needs to know two things when such allegations are made about the Judiciary. First, is the Member for Anson able, willing, to back up his allegations? Is he truthful? Is he honest? Or is he a cowardly man who only makes such allegations when protected by parliamentary privilege? Or is he fabricating these allegations for political purposes? 

    The second thing that the public wants to know is what is the position of the Government? Is the Government ready, and willing, to have such serious allegations investigated, scrutinized, to determine the truth? The Government's position on this, Members will recall, was stated by the Prime Minister in this House on 22nd December 1981 in reply to the Member for Anson's allegations about corruption. I quote from the Prime Minister [Hansard, Vol. 41 col. 332]: 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, in the sitting of 21st March 1986, the Prime Minister produced his account of a conversation with the Chairman of the Public Service Commission. The Chairman of the Public Service Commission reported that these transfers were done in the ordinary course of the Legal Service Commission's affairs by the Chief Justice in consultation with the Attorney-General. Then a written note from the Chief Justice was produced by the Prime Minister where the Chief Justice stated categorically that the decision to transfer was his own decision. The Member for Anson persisted and did not apologize. The following day, the Prime Minister produced internal Legal Service Commission documents and minutes, also 

    Then what happened? Let us recall that when the Member for Anson refused to accept all this evidence, the Member for Anson then suggested the appointment of a Parliamentary Committee to inquire into how it came about that the man was transferred. Members will note that it was the Member for Anson who initiated the idea of an inquiry. It was he who suggested that there should be an inquiry. Then there was a debate as to the nature of the inquiry, form terms of reference, and so on. Eventually, the Prime Minister suggested that, instead of a Parliamentary inquiry, there be established a Commission of Inquiry headed by a Judge of the High Court. The Prime Minister said that the Inquiry will look into, and I quote [Vol. 47, col. 914]: 

    'the basis for all the allegations made, all the statements made by the Member in this Chamber concerning the Judiciary and the administration of the law, and to look specifically into the two items he has made.' I need to underline, Mr Speaker, that the Prime Minister made it clear that the Inquiry will look into all the statements made by the Member in this House concerning the Judiciary. Did the Member for Anson challenge this? He did not. The Prime Minister also said: 

    'There will be someone appointed to conduct it and the Member for Anson will be one of the prime suppliers of evidence to this High Court Judge.' I am reading from col. 914 of the Hansard of 21st March, 1986. 

  hoiyung: That is right. In other words, the Prime Minister made it clear that the Commission will be headed by a High Court Judge, that it will inquire into all the allegations he had made about the Judiciary, that he will be one of the prime suppliers of evidence. The Member for Anson was the next person to speak after the Prime Minister sat. Did he reject what 

    'Now he proposes that a High Court Judge be appointed. Well, so be it. ... So it is for the Prime Minister, and if he thinks that is what it should be, well, fine. I will, [this is the Member for Anson] if invited, certainly make representations to whoever is appointed.' In other words, not only did he not reject, he assured the House that he would appear before whoever is appointed. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, Members have the Report of the Commission. They have read it. Let me only highlight certain features of the session in the morning and the afternoon of the first day. The facts speak for themselves. In the morning the Member for Anson claimed that he was ready, willing, able and anxious to get into the witness box. Well, Members have seen it on television, and I will quote at random what the Member said: 

 is a lawyer. Mr Speaker, Sir, the well-known rule is known as the Rule of Evidence and if the Member for Anson refers to pages 32 and 33 of the Report he will note that this is the practice in many Commissions of Inquiry. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, no one can force or compel the Member or any Member of this House to repeat or to explain what he said in Parliament. And indeed no one forced him. The Commissioner made it clear that he was not being forced and he would not be forced. Counsel also made it clear that the Member was not being compelled. But what the Member was saying is that, even if he voluntarily wanted to give evidence, there is a rule of law in the Privileges Act which prohibited him. Mr Speaker, Sir, is there such a basis in law? It is unheard of. Does not the Member for Anson know, as a lawyer, that the very concept of privilege means it is a special benefit conferred on Members of this House, giving immunity from prosecution and punishment for things said here, which immunity is not given to other members or strangers. Does he not know that privilege by its very nature is a shield for a defence which one 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, in closing, let me say that, of course, there is freedom of speech in Parliament. Of course, there are special rules of law giving Members of Parliament special immunity from prosecution and punishment outside Parliament for what they say in this Chamber. But there is, and there surely must be, a corresponding duty not to abuse this privilege. And when a Member makes a scurrilous, unfounded allegation, about the Judiciary as the Member for Anson has done, then the facts must be determined for either he is proved correct, in which case the Government is crooked, or he must own up, admit that he made a false allegation and apologize to the Government and the Judiciary. 

  Mr Speaker: May I remind the hon. Member for Anson that if this Question is decided upon by the House, either in the affirmative or in the negative, the hon. Member's Motion which appears as item No. 11 on the Order Paper cannot be proceeded with. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has asked what are the passages where it can be said that his comments are an attack on the Judiciary. I 

    Then he asked, where is the scurrilous attack on the Chief Justice? I thought he should have known this. Because it was scurrilous, the Leader of the House lodged a complaint on the Member for Anson's refusal to --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, it will be recalled, was shown a letter, a handwritten note, from the Chief Justice on the question as to who made the decision. The Chief Justice's note was produced here and the letter clearly stated that it was the Chief Justice who made the decision. The Member for Anson was not satisfied and he wanted to ask who was the originator. The Prime Minister then reported that he had further conversation with the Chief Justice and the ChiefJustice was astounded by --- 

  hoiyung: All right. I will give it to him. Mr Speaker, Sir, if you will bear with me. Col. 913. The scurrilous statement of the Member for Anson is --- 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson's scurrilous statement is that --- 

    'Mr Speaker, Sir, at the luncheon break I got in touch with the Chief Justice in order to acquaint him of the proceedings this morning. He was astounded that his written note to me and the file minutes of the Legal Service Commission have not been accepted without question. He asked if it could be so, and I said, repeating the Member for Anson, "that he wanted the circumstances of the transfer to be examined." The Chief Justice, reluctant though he is to lose the services of another High Court Judge, since one already has to look into the circumstances of the collapse of the hotel at Serangoon Road, has reluctantly agreed to make another Judge available.' 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Prime Minister also reported that the Chief Justice asked if the Member for Anson would repeat what the Member for Anson had repeated. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson should surely do his own homework. 

  hoiyung: Col. 916. The Member for Anson should not think that I quote without basis. Col. 916: 

    'The Prime Minister: I asked specifically on behalf of the Chief Justice, whether the Member is prepared to have what he said in this House re-stated without privilege.' This is what the Prime Minister asked on behalf of the Chief Justice. The Member for Anson obviously has forgotten all this. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: It is very simple. If it is not scurrilous, if it is not defamatory, why did the Member for Anson not repeat it outside the House when the press asked him? 

 Chief Justice) own decision, and the Member for Anson does not accept the Chief Justice's word and persist in his allegations of Executive interference. Surely that is scurrilous. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, his third question concerns the quotations I read out, statements he had made in the Commission of Inquiry. No, I do not have the official transcript of the Commission of Inquiry but every quotation that I read is on video tape, it is available and, if challenged, we can bring it at five minutes' notice, television and videotape, into this House and you can re-play it and check whether every quotation was or was not, were or were not, words uttered by the Member for Anson in the Commission's sittings. If challenged, we can bring it at five minutes' notice, Mr Speaker, Sir. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, what better evidence can there be of the correctness of my quotations than the actual sound and video picture recording of the Member for Anson saying those quotations. And I am prepared to bring that into the House, if challenged. 

  hoiyung: I can hardly believe that I have heard the Member for Anson say those words. But he obviously is a very plastic man who can contort himself into new shapes and forms. I take him seriously and at face value that he is suggesting at this late hour that there has been skulduggery, that there was grave impropriety in the way in which he has 

  hoiyung: I am breathless, Mr Speaker, Sir. I do not know if the Member for Anson has cognizance of what he is saying. This is not braggadocio. His challenge is immediately accepted. He is persisting in his allegations, and I am saying - name your witnesses, you will have every one of them, without any hesitation. I have nothing to hide nor has anybody. Please, name them now. 

  hoiyung: You must bear with us, Mr peaker, Sir. The Member wants to re-argue his position de nouveau. I am prepared even for that. I am prepared to ask this House to suspend judgment on the Report by Mr Justice Sinnathuray and to proceed to hear the witnesses or direct the Commissioner or a new Commissioner to hear the witnesses that the Member for Anson said were prevented from giving their evidence and that with this evidence, a completely new picture will emerge. Now, may I ask who are these witnesses besides the Member for Anson? Let us have them now, here. So we are quite clear in our minds who they are. 

  hoiyung: It is part of the tactics of the Member for Anson to shift the subject and move the ground whenever he finds himself in an uncomfortable position. He goes back again now and says there is grave disquiet, that the registered letter was sent and suppressed. 

  hoiyung: Because they did not turn up. Because had they turned up, they would have been put on oath and given evidence on oath which the Member for Anson was invited to do, and he rejected. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I am not intimidated. I am sorry to say that I do know my position. There can be no appeal against the conviction for defrauding creditors. The case is closed. What was sent for retrial and it is the appeal on the retrial that the Member is talking about - is a finding of law which the Chief Justice reversed, that a statutory declaration need not be in the form in the schedule for it to be an offence under section 199 of the Penal Code. And he ordered that there be a new trial under a new Judge. There was this new trial. The Judge convicted the Member for Anson and the Member for Anson is appealing against this conviction of false declaration, not against defrauding creditors. He is therefore deliberately misleading us. 

    'In my judgment the trial judge erred in law in finding that the prosecution had failed to prove a prima facie case under Section 199 and in acquitting Wong and Jeyaretnam without calling on each of them to enter upon his defence. In all the circumstances the order I make is that there be a fresh joint trial before another judge.' 

 who heard it and directed that he call upon the defence, which is one option open to him. He however chose, two months after hearing the appeal and reading the written judgment of the District Judge, to transfer him and ordered a retrial under another judge. In other words, giving the Member for Anson a chance, a clean chance, a trial de novo, right from the beginning, so that if he is innocent, he will be acquitted. Because the man who had heard him, Michael Khoo, must read this judgment which reversed him and when instructed to call upon the defence must convict --- 

    '... the slowness of an appellate court in disturbing a finding of fact arrived at by a judge who had the advantage of seeing the witnesses.' He conceded that he would be slow in reversing Mr Michael Khoo on findings of fact because Michael Khoo had the advantage of seeing the witnesses. He went on, in page 23, about a cheque given by a Dr Ivy Chew to the Workers' Party, crossed, and he said: 

    'When it was issued by her [by Ivy Chew] it became prima facie the property of the Workers' Party.' 

    The defence chose to rest its case upon Jeyaretnam's evidence alone on the question of Dr Chew's intention. To refute Dr Chew's intention as expressed on the face of the cheque [which I thought was a very simple proposition] the defence relied on Jeyaretnam's bare assertion that there was a note from her to him accompanying her cheque and Jeyaretnam's assertion that he had a subsequent telephone conversation with her as to the use to be made of its proceeds.' The defence is not that the cheque did not belong to the Workers' Party and he defrauded the creditors by transferring it out from Workers' Party funds, but that there was a covering note from Dr Chew and a subsequent telephone conversation with her which enabled him to make use of it in a different way. 

 intention was the testimony of Jeyaretnam, that he ignored or failed to consider the evidence before him of Dr Chew's intention as expressed on the face of her own cheque. The failure to do so was in my opinion a serious misdirection.' 

    'I am unable to accept Jeyaretnam's evidence that there was a note to him from Dr Chew and consequently I do not accept his evidence of their subsequent telephone conversation for the following reasons.' In other words, the Judge not having seen hoiyung: Why didn't the prosecution call them? 

    'In my judgment, it was sufficient for the prosecution to rely on the cheque itself as proof that the cheque was the property of the Workers' Party but, having regard to the nature ... of the defence on the issue of Dr Chew's intention, the defence should have called her as a witness.' In other words, here was a party supporter, signed this cheque, was alleged to have given a piece of paper, and said, "You do with it as you like", had a subsequent telephone conversation. Here was the Secretary-General of the Party about to be found guilty and she could not be produced. All that they could get was a statutory declaration in which she very carefully said "tacit understanding". 

    'In my judgment, these passages disclose errors on the part of the trial judge. First, in the passage beginning "In the absence of any evidence to the contrary" it seems to me that he failed to take into consideration the undisputed facts relied on by the prosecution together with such inferences as may be drawn from the proved facts and failed to weigh that evidence against Jeyaretnam's evidence before coming to the conclusion that Jeyaretnam's evidence could not be untrue. In my judgment this was a serious misdirection [a serious misdirection]. 

    Secondly, the trial judge [ie, Michael Khoo] erred in his finding that "there would have been no grounds for the prosecution to complain" had the cheques been first banked into the Workers' Party bank account and then paid out to Madam Chew's solicitors. 

    In my judgment the trial judge misconstrued the evidence of Mr Keith Tay [an accountant]. It is clear that the answer [Mr Keith Tay's answer] was in response to the question which required the witness to assume as a fact that Jeyaretnam was entitled to pay Mdm Chew's costs "from a donor"'". Again, a finding of fact that the judge allowed extraneous and irrelevant material to influence his finding on the case. 

    Lastly, ... the trial judge erred in law in relying on the Rangoon Case ... for finding that even though the cheque was the property of the Workers' Party, Tay Boon Too had not obtained any right or title to its proceeds and consequently had no right to the distribution of the proceeds according to law.' 

    'In my judgment, on a full consideration of the material evidence and the circumstances and bearing in mind that an appellate court should be slow in disturbing a finding of fact arrived at by a judge who had the advantage of seeing the witnesses but is nonetheless duty bound to review at large the evidence upon which that finding was reached, [in spite of his reluctance, the Chief Justice says] I am satisfied that the trial judge was wrong in accepting Wong's account and in finding that Ping had no intention of transferring the property in his cheque to the Workers' Party. ' 

    'It follows, in my opinion, inescapably, [these are the Chief Justice's words] that Jeyaretnam's recollection, as given in evidence by him, that Wong told him Ping wanted to give something for Madam Chew's costs must also be untrue as was his recollection that he endorsed it so that they could get the money for Madam Chew. Accordingly, I find that at all material times Ping's cheque was the property of the Workers' Party.' 

    Very simple. The man gave a cheque. "Workers' Party or Bearer". He had cancelled "Bearer". In a private room, Mr 

 Jeyaretnam, Mr Wong in a separate room, Mr Wong with hoiyung: I did not say that. Look up the passages. 

  The Prime Minister: No, I am not. I am suggesting that the Chief Justice, in his judgment, incidentally gave his reasons why he transferred Mr Michael Khoo. I do not know Mr Michael Khoo. I have not met him. I have no desire to pry into his mind. But it so happens that he has become a bone of contention. And lest it be forgotten that he is being punished by the Chief Justice because he was on the side of the Member for Anson, let me read his judgment which he wrote for the appeal to 

    'It is not in dispute that the $400 cheque given to Willie Lim on the 22nd of May was intended as a donation to the Workers' Party. Willie Lim testified that after the donation he was asked by a friend [this is page 42, 43] to go down to the Party branch. He was met outside by Wong, the first accused, who told me that he had been looking for me. The first accused then brought me to the MP's partitioned office and asked me to cross out the words "Workers' Party" on the cheque and initial it. When asked what was wrong with the cheque, the first accused told him it was because the Party's funds were with the Official Receiver. The date of the alteration is in dispute, Lim having contended that it was some time in June 1982, whereas Wong had contended it was on the 27th of May 1982, which was the date on the receipt.' 

    'Wong testified that on 27th May 1982, while in the office of the MP, Willie called and the accused Wong told him that since his cheque had been made out to the Workers' Party and the Workers' Party's account had been closed, I told him to change it to a "cash" cheque. Wong denied ever mentioning to Willie anything about the Official Receiver. Having regard to all the evidence, both oral and documentary, I disbelieve the first accused's version.' 

    'Was this act of the accused Wong done in furtherance of a common intention of both accused such as would make Jeyaretnam liable for that act? All that Jeyaretnam had to say in his defence to this charge was, "I really can't say if I saw a cheque [from Willie Lim] at all ... I can't recall seeing him at any time altering the cheque...I did not deal in any way with the cash that may have arisen from the cheque.' 

    'Willie Lim was emphatic that Jeyaretnam was present "to my front, to my left" when Wong requested him to alter the cheque in the MP's private office. I therefore accepted this evidence that the alteration of the cheque was done in Jeyaretnam's presence having found as a fact that this had occurred 

 after the appointment of the Receiver and that the reason proffered by the accused Wong was because the Party's funds were in the hands of the Official Receiver. The only conclusion I could have come to was that the accused Jeyaretnam was fully aware of the transaction. [This is Michael Khoo whom he has praised]. I therefore have no doubts whatsoever [as a man who should have been on the High Court Bench] that from their conduct when this cheque was retained by the first accused and then handed to a person unknown to be encashed on the 2nd July 1982 instead of being handed over to the Official Receiver that both accused were acting in concert.' 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, we have the bare bones of the Inquiry in the Report. Nobody gave evidence in its detail because everybody hesitated in wanting to bring out data which may be unfavourable to the District Judge. I regret that the Member persisted and I have a duty when I read the judgment because I think the matter should have been pursued at the Inquiry regardless of feelings. I therefore ask the House to consider this: that we hear the Member for Anson, his case for rejecting the Report. We have two choices. (1) send the case back, or (2) direct the Commissioner to waive, to ignore --- 

  hoiyung: --- all the rules of evidence and to hear the Member for Anson and all the witnesses. We could have it any way but the Member can easily go before the Commissioner and say, "I plead privilege." We can skip that phase. Move on this motion and refer it to a Committee of Parliament. It could be a Committee of Privileges. It could be any Committee. But, Mr Speaker, Sir, you have the power, as the Chairman of such a Committee, to summon each and every 

    I am prepared to submit myself to an inquisition. I had nothing to do with the case. I do not know what overcame the Member for Anson when he made these allegations and he persisted in it today. His distorted sick mind insists that this is a Government that manipulated the Judiciary. Well, let him prove it. But every time he is asked to prove, he wriggles out and says, "This is not really what I said." I have said that --- 

  hoiyung: People, generally. Disquiet. A Commission was set up. It was broadcast. All views were canvassed. Broadcast in the newspapers, on television, on radio. Four submissions. One was prepared to go beyond an anonymous letter, and that one, Mr Sundram, was a former Workers' Party candidate. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I suggest that the Member for Anson make his speech as to why this motion should be rejected? 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok (Radin Mas): Mr Speaker, Sir, this matter is one of great public importance. It is a grave national matter. As such, it must be debated openly. And I think this House owes a duty to the Member for Potong Pasir to present his views. In view of this, so that we do not deprive him of his say on this matter merely on procedural technicality, I am signifying support, and for this very reason only, to this motion. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, you may proceed. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Do you want to give way, Mr Chiam? 

 offence having regard to the role that each member plays. The Government, in its release on 20th June this year, has stated that those whose involvement was more serious would have detention orders issued against them. Others, whose involvement was less serious would have to be rehabilitated so that they would not revert to their old activities. Once the Government is satisfied a detainee is unlikely to resume subversive activities, he or she will be released. I believe that this is a just course of action and will ensure that justice is done to all. It will allay the fears of those who think early release may encourage others to perpetuate subversion knowing that they can just regret for what they have done and get away without punishment. The Member for Potong Pasir has said just now that since they have admitted their guilt, why do you not let them out? It is somewhat equivalent to say that when you arrest a person who has murdered somebody and say the guy has confessed and said, "I am sorry for what I did." Surely, it is not human justice to let him go. The Government should decide on the release only after a very careful evaluation of the person's potential for continuing to be a threat, and whether that person is likely to resume his or her activities. I am confident that the Government will be able to deal justly and fairly with the release of these detainees as and when they are ready. Hence, my proposed amendment supportingthe Government's intention that they should be released as soon as they are rehabilitated and are unlikely to resume their subversive activities. 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, it seems unusual that I am now rising to support the amendment moved by the Member for Clementi. But I have already explained the reason for my limited support for the motion standing in the name of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    I take issue at two main aspects of the Original motion. Firstly, the motion refers to alleged involvement as if there was no basis for the Government's action. I think the Member for Potong Pasir appears to have ignored the fact that evidence has been produced to support the Government's stand. The Member for Potong Pasir also tried to make light work of the evidence that was collected by the Government. I think this evidence was reviewed by none other than the Archbishop and a number of other people who were satisfied that the Government, in fact, had a case. He has also questioned the validity of the open confessions made by the detainees of their complicity. I think it is quite clear that the Government has shown that there was no question of torture and therefore the confessions must be taken at face value as valid. This being so, the Government has taken the correct stand in detaining the 15 persons in question and, of course, a limited period of detention is necessary. The Minister for Home Affairs in his statements has mentioned that this group will have to be rehabilitated so that they will not revert to their old activities. I think more importantly, as mentioned by the Member for Clementi, detention for a limited period will serve as a deterrent and a warning to others. Nevertheless, we must recognize that this is a painful experience for the families of those concerned. Therefore, I will urge the Minister to direct his officials to provide these 15 persons every assistance and support in their rehabilitation so that they may be released before the end of their detention period. 

    Sir, contrary to the light-hearted manner in which the Member for Potong Pasir has presented his arguments, I think the matter is more serious, going by the responses from the international community. Critics and those with vested interests have criticized the Government on two major grounds. First, they say that this is an action meant to stifle the political opposition which is the Member for Potong Pasir's main argument. Second, the Government is against the Church. 

    I think as for the first, it bears repeating that there is a Member of the Opposition in this House. Not too long ago, there were two Members. I think the crux of the matter is that men like the Member for Potong Pasir has openly disagreed with the Government and has made it through the democratic process to be in this House. As it is not said otherwise, therefore I must assume that he shares the Government's stand that those with legitimate aims in our political process must do it openly. Ours is a system built on the open exchange and debate of ideas. There has been no need to hide under the cover of legitimate organizations. The Member for Potong Pasir has given the impression that anyone who speaks out against the Government is being dealt with. In his own words, he said, "has been thumbed down." Perhaps the Minister will set the record straight and inform this House if any person has been dealt with under the Internal Security Act just for expressing views against the Government. 

 that this action is not directed against them. In this present case, the infiltration by those who are out to subvert our system is much more widespread. They have infiltrated University and Polytechnic students' groups, a professional body and even a political party. The Member for Potong Pasir says that they are all Catholics - those who were involved in Catholic work. I would like the Minister to confirm if this is so and, if not, how many of those who are involved in Catholic work were or are really Catholics. I think the extent of the work of these people speaks for itself. 

    Finally, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has on a few occasions in his speech mentioned that there were no riots and this situation today is different from the 1950s. I think the impression given is that we should not have done anything until more serious action has been perpetrated. In other words, there should be riots before the Government can take any action. 

  The Minister for Labour (Mr Lee Yock Suan): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I just want to make a point of clarification. When the Member for Potong Pasir was speaking, I did not want to interrupt him. He said that the Ministry of Labour referred maids to the Geylang Catholic Welfare Centre when they had problems. To my knowledge, this is incorrect. Of course, there are a lot of maids and I cannot know about every single case. I think it is true to say that maids went to the Centre on their own and the Centre subsequently referred their problems to us, and we tried to resolve their problems or difficulties with their employers. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir asked the question: do the activities of this group amount to a serious threat to our national security? Has the Government over-reacted? Just now the Member for Chua Chu Kang took us back into our recent history of the period of turbulence of the 50's and 60's. Would the activities of this specific group develop to such an extent that we would be faced with a replay of what happened in the 50's and 60's? In a sense, since the group has already been identified and their activities contained, there is probably no sure way of our telling whether such developments will indeed lead us into that direction. But here, even the sceptics would agree that in matters of security, no government can afford to take any risks. 

    Again, the Member for Potong Pasir says that this group of people are harmless intellectuals. They might be Marxists but they are not necessarily the group of sinister Communists that we fear. To this, I would like to reply that intellectual debate about Marxism is one thing but engaging in subversive activity is another. And what this group was doing was playing with fire. Even the Member for Potong Pasir agrees that Singapore is very vulnerable. So I presume that he also agrees that the Government's response was prompt and necessary. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also said that religion was not an issue in this case, that there was no cause for concern about religious involvement of these people. If we take a broader perspective of the circumstances surrounding the arrests, I think we have to still ask the question about those who seek revolution under the cloak of religion. In some underdeveloped countries, church groups in their eagerness to play a socially relevant role by addressing the problem of poverty have turned to radical theologies and social agitation. Although in Singapore we do not have that kind of extreme poverty to breed radical theologies, still we must remember that the politicization of religion in our multi-racial and multi-religious context runs into the very real danger of bringing about confrontation between different socio-economic and ethnic groups. Hence the Government has to take a very stern view of the non-religious activities of any church group. 

    I am confident, Sir, the majority of Singaporeans fully support the Government's action in detaining the 15 persons involved in the Marxist conspiracy. Despite outside pressures and the vocal protests made by several groups, including the Member for Potong Pasir, I believe that Singaporeans are able to rationalize that the Government had acted on the basis of what best serves the interests of Singapore. And Singaporeans are also appreciative that the Government has been vigilant in guarding our security and stability and is firm in moving against anyone regardless of race, language and religion who endangers these principles. 

    Before I end my speech, Sir, I would also like to point out the error made by the Member for Potong Pasir that the Government allocated the Irving Road Community Centre to the Geylang Welfare Centre. This is not the case. In fact, the Irving Road Community Centre was originally occupied by the Mission of Charity for attending to the aged sick. They subsequently moved out to another place in Punggol. The Geylang Welfare Centre moved to Irving Road Community Centre on its own, at the initiative of Father Arotcarena, without the approval of his superior authority. The Archbishop subsequently closed down the Centre on his own. 

    The internal reactions to this arrest is that the arrests are to stifle dissent and opposition. The critics allege that the Government has arrested these persons to stifle dissent and to put down the opposition. And it appears to be so, coming in the wake of the departure of the Member for Anson from this House. The question is whether this action or previous actions under the ISA has ever discouraged dissent or political activities. Perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir would like to ponder over some of these questions I pose to him. 

    When the Member for Potong Pasir moved his motion, he said that these 15 detained people should be released on humanitarian grounds. I think what we should consider is either the personal freedom of these 15 people or the security of the whole nation, and whether we should consider either the grief of the members of the families of these 15 people or that of the interests of the whole population of Singapore. We have to choose between the two. As a responsible Government, we have to look after the interests of the absolute majority. We must have a balanced reasoning. In weighing our reasons, we should realize that until these 15 persons can show that they will cause no more harm to our society, we should not release them. This will then be a logical decision. 

  In Mandarin): If the Member for Potong Pasir could wait until I have finished my speech before rising, it would have been better. But half-way through, he interrupted me and jumped up. He is a bit too excited. What I was trying to say is that as a popularly elected MP who professed to have political consciousness, he should be more sensitive politically than the general public. But when the ordinary people or some of them are puzzled about certain matters, as the MP of the Opposition, it should have been his duty to come out and express his views. Is it not his duty to do so? Therefore, it could either be that he is afraid to take up his responsibility, or his political sensitivity is too weak. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, there is a point of order being raised. 

  In Mandarin): Whatever I am saying now is not to convince the Member for Potong Pasir because he cannot be convinced. I would just like to explain to the people in general the development of this matter, what the characteristics of this matter are compared to similar incidents that happened before. The most important point is that a new trend has appeared, that is to say, politics and religion have been mixed up. This is a very dangerous trend which never happened in our history. 

  Mr Ng Kah Ting (Punggol): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I rise to oppose the motion moved by the Member for Potong Pasir. I must! The Government has done the right thing. The 15 detainees are people who calmly and single-mindedly pursued a course calculated to bring about unrest, chaos and even bloodshed to our country. I am glad, Sir, that the Government has decided to allow an Opposition Member's motion to be seconded by one of its own Backbenchers when the motion could just as easily be killed. It is testimony to the political maturity of Singapore that we can have such an issue discussed openly in Parliament and also shown to all Singaporeans on television. However, although itis good to have these things aired, I could not understand the motive of the Member for Potong Pasir for raising the issue. Therefore, Sir, let me place before the House the possible motives of the Member and let us together examine whether they have any justification. 

    I ask the Member for Potong Pasir, who is he championing? Whose side is he on? Is he proposing a motion merely out of consideration for the 15 detainees? For their human rights? I ask him, what about 

 the rights of the rest of our population? The right to a peaceful, prosperous and harmonious society. The right to an open and free society. The right to a life free of subversion and manipulation by pro-Communist elements. Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I am asking the Member for Potong Pasir to look at the Government's action as a whole and not lose sight of the forest for the trees. We must look at this from a higher plane. There is more to all this than just the detention ofthe 15 persons. 

    Sir, as mentioned by some of my Backbench colleagues, this sensitive piece of legislation, the ISA, was not concocted by this Government. It was the British who introduced preventive detention in colonial Singapore. And they had good reason too. The British were faced with activists who knew very well how to operate within the law while spreading and strengthening their network. By the time the activists were ready to come into the open and break the law, it would have been too late to stem the civil unrest, violence and bloodshed that would inevitably follow. That is why the ISA cannot be abolished. Here, I must point out that the Member for Potong Pasir has not called for the repeal of the ISA in his speech. That is significant. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, is the Member for Potong Pasir bowing to such pressures in proposing this motion before the House? 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I would like to ask the Member for Potong Pasir if his reason for proposing this motion is that he thinks the 15 detainees are victims of an attack by the Government against the Roman Catholic Church. If so, I must state my disagreement in the strongest terms. Like my good friend, the Member for Clementi, I would be the first to oppose such an action. The 15 were detained for their activities as individuals. The Church and other institutions were being used by these 15 as a convenient cover. These people knew the Government would tread carefully and be very certain before closing in on them. Sir, I would like to remind the Member for Potong Pasir that although the Government owed no explanation and had every power to do what they did, the Hon. Prime Minister nevertheless went to the extent of meeting the Archbishop and several lay members and priests. This was referred to by some Members. The events that followed are history. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir alleged that the detainees were subjected to torture in order to extract from them the necessary statements. Like other Backbenchers, I ask the Hon. Minister for Home Affairs to comment on his allegation. Does the Member for Potong Pasir think that the television broadcasts were all a hoax and the confessions staged? Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, here again I would like to ask the Hon. Minister for Home Affairs if there is any truth in this. For myself, I am fully satisfied that any allegation of torture is untrue. The Member for Ayer Rajah pointed this out just now. In fact, he quoted from an article. However, for the sake of the Member for Potong Pasir's peace of mind, I think the Hon. Minister concerned should say a few words of assurance here. 

    Sir, several speakers earlier referred to the many people who watched the television programme "The Marxist Conspiracy" saying that the detainees looked harmless and innocent. Is it possible that the Member for Potong Pasir has been beguiled by the soft- spoken, mild-mannered, self-confessed followers of Marxism? Surely he has heard before that 

 appearances can be deceptive. He might have seen with his own eyes. But did he not listen to what they had to say? Did he hear what Vincent Cheng had to say? Did he not hear Vincent Cheng saying that he was willing to foment violence if peaceful means did not work out? Did he not hear Vincent Cheng saying that when political turmoil turned violent, other leaders or Tan Wah Piow would have emerged to take care of the problem? These are dangerous people. They manipulate and instigate others to do the job for them. They do not get their own hands soiled. When it comes to the crunch, they will stand by and smile, an innocent smile, while others fight their battle for them. That is the surest way to self-preservation. They will never risk their own lives. They will persuade others to risk theirs for their so-called "noble" cause. Surely the Member for Potong Pasir, being the man he is, does not judge by appearances alone. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, in conclusion, I would like to point out to the Member for Potong Pasir that he will not be sitting there proposing this motion nor will I be standing here should these people succeed in subverting our State and establishing their Marxist society. I know this better. We may not even be extended the courtesy of being locked up as political detainees. To put it mildly, Sir, we would be disposed of in the literal sense. Therefore, we will not allow ourselves to be intimidated by them. I am confident that this Government will continue to fight all forms of subversion to ensure that we maintain our political stability, our peace and our free society. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that Christians oppose the Communists most. And I say Islam also oppose the Communists most. But then South Yemen was devoured. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, maybe it is worth our while to flip through the Universal Declaration on Human Rights as part of the enshrined articles was mentioned by the Opposition Member. I always notice whether they are persons inside or outside of this House, inside or outside of the country, somehow or rather will keep on quoting articles 9, 10 and 13 only. I do not think I should read the articles. I would like to think that the Opposition Member for Potong Pasir understands them. But let me say this. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a document of guarded idealism. Thus it is capable of many interpretations. Because words or meanings of the words may change because of three important elements: (1) time, from decade to decade; (2) place, from place to place; and (3) people, from one person to another person. So I would suggest that we read all those 30 articles. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think everybody understands this. And I think the Member for Potong Pasir must also understand. Let me quote another article, Article 23 about the right to work and what is the stark reality of life. Article 23 proclaims that everyone has the right to work, to free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions of work and to protection against unemployment. Everybody agrees. It is a beautiful, crafted, worded article. Only the insane persons may denounce it. Yet we know that any sane government will not employ people whom 

    The Member for Potong Pasir apparently disagrees that these are Marxist conspirators who are there in place, who are there to undermine, infiltrate organizations, who are there and, if allowed to continue, would create chaos and disorder in the long run. He disputes those evidence. I think the onus is on him, Mr Deputy Speaker, to give evidence that this group of conspirators are not what they are. So I would ask him to come out and say where is the evidence to demonstrate that Vincent Cheng and company are not Marxists, that they are really people who advocate 

  In Mandarin): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the philosophy of life of the Member for Potong Pasir is sometimes really naive and innocent. He has been harping that rioting and demonstration are good. Let us consider the reason for the Government's action in detaining these young people under the Internal Security Act for Marxist conspiracy. The Government has acted mainly in the interest of the nation and the general majority of the populace. This is not an action that we are jubilant about or a matter to be celebrated. When we take this action, it is a very painful action to us. That in the 1980's in Singapore, such a thing could happen! These young people had confessed on TV and described how they intended to incite and mobilise the people through peaceful means leading to demonstrations, riots and turmoil to overthrow the Government and to change and set up a regime of another form and social order. Yet the Member for Potong Pasir kept on saying that rioting and demonstration is also correct, and good. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir said that possibly the PAP Government's action is aimed at suppressing the opposition or intimidating the young people because the Government is afraid of their criticism, and so in their view there is no democracy and freedom of expression in Singapore. If there is no democracy in Singapore, then 

 the Member for Potong Pasir would not have been here in this House. If there is no freedom of expression, then today he would not have been able to criticize the Government here and do what he likes. So, he is slapping his own cheek. 

    Another naive and ignorant view of his is that these young people seem to be very innocent. Many of them have just come from the institutes of learning and some are still in school. He mentioned that Tan Wah Piow is still a student in a University. He is not an ordinary student. He is an old student of 35 years old. He said, "How could they look like revolutionaries? How can they create revolution?" Talking about revolutionaries, he must have the impression that a revolutionary must be a creature of multiple heads and limbs standing 3 metres high with an insignia or symbol on his head, indicating that he is a revolutionist. This is a very peculiar and naive view. A Communist and a revolutionist looks just like you and me. You cannot differentiate him from us by his looks. Indeed, recently there is an article in a Chinese language newspaper in America called "Vietnam New Press". The article mentioned the name of the Member for Potong Pasir. This is an American Chinese paper. The article was possibly written by a Chinese who had lived in Vietnam and escaped from Vietnam and had moved to the United States. He has experienced life under Communist rule. He published an editorial in which he said: 

    Singapore's Opposition Leader expressed concern about this detention and said that these things are unbelievable and that such people could not be Communist! By the time these people have come to realize it, it is already too late, foregone and foreclosed beyond redemption and regret. By that time, the people of Singapore would have lost their freedom and democracy. Then to whom can they ask for accountability? Are Singapore people to ask the Member for Potong Pasir to be accountable? By then, unless the MP for Potong Pasir is a Communist, he would not be in the Parliament. Even if he is a Communist, he will not be able to come into the House and sway around to so brazenly criticize the Government in such a free and caustic manner.' 

    It is difficult to uncover Communist conspiracies because they work in cells secretly, furtively, unseen, like termites. When you uncover them, you are often surprised that they are so innocent, so gentle. They do not look at all like a typical revolutionary or communist. As my colleague, the Second Deputy Prime Minister explained just now, they do not wear letters or tattoos on their heads to proclaim that they are communists. They are not like gangsters having tattoo marks on their arms or on their bodies. They do not even wear a badge, like the Member for Potong Pasir. Everyone knows that he is a member from the SDP. But would you expect a communist to go around wearing a badge saying, "I am a communist"? 

    Has the Member for Potong Pasir met real-life communists? Has he met Ieng Sary, one of the members of the inner clique of Pol Pot? I have met Ieng Sary twice at international meetings. He looked gentle, chubby, cherubic. You will never imagine that he could hurt a fly and yet he is an inner member of the Pol Pot's clique which had caused senseless deaths in Cambodia, thousands of them. But had you met him at international meetings, you would never imagine that he was a Khmer Rouge leader capable of senseless genocide on members of their own population. 

    Firstly, we stand every chance of being accused of using the ISA to intimidate the opposition and to stifle dissent, and indeed this point has been made by several people both inside Singapore and outside Singapore and by the Member for Potong Pasir. He alleged that we are misusing the ISA to stifle dissent, to intimidate the opposition, to prepare for the next general elections. 

    Like my other colleagues in this House, I agree with them wholeheartedly that we have to be vigilant against Communist threat. And I believe the Member for Potong Pasir understands this despite all his arguments against the continued detention of the 16. He has not called for the abolition of the Internal Security Act in this House. He might have called for the abolition of this Internal Security Act sometime ago when he addressed his May Day Rally gathering some three days after the first 16 were detained. But since then I have not read, in print, his calling for the abolition of the ISA. So I think he begins to understand, having seen one TV episode and maybe read the evidences in the newspapers that there is indeed a need for the ISD. He gave an interview to the New York Times on 21st June. He did not tell the New York Times that the ISA should be abolished. I think this is significant. This is a New York paper. He did not press home the point. That he should champion the immediate release of the 15 who are still under detention, I think, is understandable. He is a Member of the Opposition and he has got to be seen to be making a case out for them. But does he really believe that these people once released may not go back to their activities which are detrimental to the State? Can he be sure that they will not go back to their activities? If he can be sure and we can be sure, then the detainees should be released. But we should not release them unless we can be very, very sure that they have been properly rehabilitated, that their likelihood of going back to their old ways is minimal, if not zero. He may have called them as he did in his interview with the New York Times "innocent young idealists". He may 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I respond to the various points raised in the debate by hon. Members. First, let me dispose of certain preliminary specific points before dealing with the thrust of the motion standing in the name of the Member for Potong Pasir and the amendment of the Member for Clementi. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir as well as a few other Members have asked me about all these allegations of torture. I have already publicly given a comprehensive statement. Just to reiterate the points that I have made, there is no truth in these allegations. First of all, we do not do these 

 things and you cannot expect to do these things and get away with it in Singapore. Secondly, we do not do it not only because it is wrong but because it is unnecessary. Because each time we act under the ISA, we do so only after we have information, evidence, grounds, which we confront persons whom we arrest. Thirdly, Sir, Members will realize that no relative and no lawyer for the detainees has made any complaint of ill treatment. Fourthly, during interrogations, doctors are available to attend to the needs of detainees to see if they are fit to proceed. Indeed, interrogation of one detainee was stopped on medical advice on account of a flu. The Member for Potong Pasir obviously relies only on mischievous reports in the foreign press but he does not even consider local press and Malaysian press reports. The girl, Ng Bee Leng, reported in the press: 

    What about the others? The Member for Potong Pasir, if he had read press accounts, would have found others, Mah Lee Lin, was quoted by the press: 

    Sir, may I now proceed to deal with the main points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. First of all, he argues that these arrested persons are idealists, harmless, may not engage in anything which can be said to be a threat to the security of Singapore. Is that so? What are the facts? Others Members have recounted some of them. What has Vincent Cheng told us? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir says liberation theology is something new to him. But if he wants to engage in a debate here, he must get to know something about it. And I would urge him to start reading about it because it has very serious implications. Let me just give the following quotation: 

 they are rehabilitated and are unlikely to resume their subversive activities. That is a key criterion which is essential in deciding whether to release a person or not. Not because a person swears on TV or off TV that he will never do it again. The Member for Potong Pasir is a lawyer. He must have come across many cases of accused persons in court who will swear till they are blue in the face that they will never do it again. Does he really believe every one of them? 

    On the Member's points about the arrests being to stifle dissent and opposition. Other Members have very effectively demolished these arguments of the Member for Potong Pasir and I do not propose to cover the same ground. 

    I was also amazed at the Member for Potong Pasir's statement that none of these persons has ever said that he is a Marxist. I wonder whether he has read all the information that has been published. He told us that he has not watched some of the TV programmes. It is a pity. I would have assumed that when he takes an important position such as the call for their immediate release he would have at least acquainted himself with the facts. For if he had, surely he would have known what Vincent Cheng said about having accepted Marxism, what Kenneth Tsang said, what Lim Li Kok said, that Communism was a better alternative for our society, and she 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir in his speech said that we have seen in the United States riots and disorder, and yet they are able to handle it. This is just a passing phase. Are we like the United States? Can we handle problems like the United States? We are small, densely populated, with different races, languages and religions. Are we destined to be an independent nation? We are trying our best to run ourselves as an independent country. 

    Apply any of those tests: are we a nation? We must succeed despite these insuperable difficulties in making ourselves a nation. But to compare ourselves with the United States. They have had over 200 years of history. They fought the British for independence; they fought a civil war. They are so vast, they can cushion against transient problems and crises in one state or county. Let us not compare ourselves with the United States. Let us take a developing country, not Sri Lanka because the Member for Potong Pasir says, "Sri Lankans are less intelligent than Singaporeans. They are wishy-washy." So they are of a lesser breed. 

    Sir, in the ultimate analysis, the security of Singapore cannot be ensured by the smoking gun and blood-stained parang approach. The Member for Potong Pasir said, almost as if in passing, there has been no case of a politician shot in Singapore. Equally so one can ask, there have been no riots, no violence. We have had decades of stability. But why is that so? It is because we have deliberately chosen a strategy of not waiting for the blood-stained parang or the smoking gun. That we have a strategy of nipping problems in the bud. There is no other way, Sir, to guarantee our security. (Applause) 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you giving way? 

  Mr Ng Kah Ting: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir asks, where is the forum? This is the forum. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, Mr Ng is asking for a point of clarification. Are you giving way? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, with due respect, I did not quote it from there. I have read it. It was quoted by my friend and colleague, the Member for Ayer Rajah. Read the specific part. Let the Member for Potong Pasir read the specific part that was read out by my good friend, the Member for Ayer Rajah. 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: Mr Chiam, I have not said anything. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, my name was mentioned by my colleague, the Member for Punggol. Yes, I did quote the passage by Santa Maria. But the Member for Potong Pasir quoted the wrong passage. If he wants to know, I am prepared to tell him which passage I quoted. But I do not think he will be listening, so I will not be bothered. 

  The Leader of the House (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, Mr Chiam, the Member for Potong Pasir, recounted how he agreed to move this motion. But let him not go away with the impression that we tried to trap him into this situation. That is definitely not the case. When I was told that he wanted to move a motion for the adjournment - I think it was the 23rd before the closing date of 25th - we thought that this is a very important subject. And since he has passed the closing date for moving a private member's motion on the 18th, we thought that perhaps we can find a way to help him raise this important subject and allow a full debate of the subject before this House. If not, he would only have 20 minutes. Of course, the Minister has 10 minutes, but the Minister can also make a Ministerial statement to counter all those points that he wants to raise. But if he just have 20 minutes, he would not be able to make full use of the one hour that he took when he first started and another 30 - 40 minutes before he sat down to express his views. So he was given the full opportunity to say all that he wanted to say on behalf of these 15 individuals who are detained. 

 should it have the ISA to suppress or detain people unnecessarily? Of course, the PAP has a vision. And for that reason we are in power for the last 28 years. Without that kind of vision, if we just move from election to election, from year to year, or being pushed from pillar to post by all kinds of unpopular issues, we would not be here that long. We will continue to remain here for a long time because we have a vision. Our vision, of course, is that we must have a stable society that stresses on economic growth, that will provide job opportunities for our people, freedom for them to do what they want to satisfy themselves, to fulfill themselves in materialistic and non-materialistic ways. But the underpinning of this freedom to do all these things is that we must be free from threats, both internally and externally. And one of these instruments that will allow us to continue to live freely is the Internal Security Act. We have found it necessary to use it on this occasion to nip the problem in the bud. Of course, the Member for Potong Pasir would have us release or not detain any of such people at all costs, as he said. But I do not think Singaporeans will agree that we should allow a security situation to threaten us until we are overwhelmed, until we are consumed by riots and havoc. We want to continue to live peacefully. 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok:Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, rather than the Whip, I think I am responsible for the sitting today when I supported the motion of the Member for Potong Pasir. Actually, the point is that this morning when he stood up to move his motion and he was allowed to speak, I could detect that there was great pleasure in his opening remarks. He thanked the House for everybody kindly coming here this morning. In fact, he thanked me for my reluctant support of his motion. And having gone through this whole debate 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is fond of asking for figures. I do not have the figures. If he likes he can file a question for Oral Answer. 

 improve their writings in the Workers' Party organ, the "Hammer". 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I do not know what the Member for Potong Pasir has in mind when he says "intervene". If he is asking whether the Government will prop up the local stock market, the answer is "no". I should point out that there are now substantial foreign investors in local shares, including those sold by the Government to the public, and any attempt by the Government to support the market will merely encourage speculation in these shares by both local and foreign investors. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir seems to suggest in his question that the Government has an obligation to buy back shares that were sold to the public under its privatization programme, now that the shares have fallen in value. The Government does not have such a one-sided obligation. The original issue prices of shares in Government-owned companies were fixed at levels which would give investors a fair return on their investments, based on the companies' track records and future prospects. The prices of many of these shares rose substantially after issue due to strong investor sentiment and many purchasers made handsome profits when they resold the shares before the market crashed. Those who entered the market late and did not sell their shares before the market crashed were never encouraged or persuaded by the Government to buy. In fact, the 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, can you ask your question? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I understand the Member for Potong Pasir's question quite clearly. But what he has failed to do is to understand my reply. 

 not the Member for Potong Pasir. The implication is that if the shares fall in price, Government should buy them back. If they rise in price, the buyers should retain the profit. Is that the implication? 

  Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau: Yes. I was just going to say that. I suggest that the Member for Potong Pasir should perhaps come for a short seminar at the Ministry of Finance and we will set him right. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I have already given him the answer as to why we feel that the clearance programme should not be slowed down now. The Member for Potong Pasir is advocating a policy which, if we were to implement, would mean that we would only speed up or we would only carry out clearance programme when there is a shortage of vacant shops or vacant alternative premises for those who are going to be affected by clearance. Sir, I think such a policy would lead to greater problems and stresses on those who are affected by clearance because you are then asking them to move out. In a situation where there is physically a shortage of alternative places for them to go to, you are forcing them to move and they have to pay a higher price. We would not be able to carry out our clearance programme fairly and expeditiously if we were to try to do so in a situation where there is a shortage of alternative premises and I would not support such myopic policies. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, among the people who are affected, as the Member for Potong Pasir has mentioned, if their particular premises are affected for any of the reasons which I have just listed in my answer to him, then this is in fact the best time for them to move out when there is already a glut of alternative premises. I have just pointed out to him his myopic ideas, and if we were to follow them, it would only result in creating more problems for those very people whom he wishes to help. 

 good public money is being used for good public purposes. As the Member for Potong Pasir has said, $286 million of good money is available, we must therefore all the more ensure that there is a public watchdog body to see that such funds are made available for good public purposes. The Board to be set up under the proposed Bill will provide public participation in ensuring that the money will be channelled to the various charitable and public institutions. I think this is the main thrust of the Bill. We would not know how this money is going to be deployed if it is left with nochecks, no public inputs into the way the money is to be utilized. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has suggested that the matter be referred to a Select Committee on grounds that the members of the Turf Club Committee were not consulted. I do not think this is really a sensible proposal. The Bill is intended primarily to correct an anomaly, an oversight which should have been corrected many years ago. We are merely following the precedent set in Malaysia where the Tote Board has been in operation for some years. In fact, in Australia and in many other countries legal gambling sanctioned by government is controlled by statutory boards and agencies (like the Turf Club's) carry on the day-to-day operations. 

 day-to-day operations. There is no suggestion that the present committee has done anything wrong. So the need to consult them for a proposal in which the public interest is manifest, I think would be unnecessary and perhaps a considerable waste of public time. I suggest that if the Member for Potong Pasir has heard of any aspersions or reasons for the introduction of this Bill, he should have the courage to say it in public. But if he feels that this would be embarrassing for individuals, I will be quite happy to receive his comments in private. 

(Allegation of Member for Potong Pasir)

  The Minister for Finance (Dr Richard Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has made a serious allegation against the Government about misleading the public regarding the powers of the Singapore Turf Club to dissolve itself. I would refer him to section 35(g) of the Societies Act which specifically authorizes the STC to dissolve itself without reference to the Registrar of Societies. 

  The First Deputy Prime Minister (Mr Goh Chok Tong): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, we all know that the Member for Potong Pasir is very keen to prove his manhood. 

  hoiyung: I am prepared to wager with any Member in this House that when we contest the next election, whether it is a by-election or the general election, that the Member for Potong Pasir or the SDP will not be there to contest against the PAP in Anson Constituency. I remember that when we had this by-election in October 1981, reading in the Straits Times about Mr Chiam rushing in to contest the election. Mr Chiam was leading the SDP. "We are going in, we are going in," said he. And he rushed into the Anson Nomination Centre. Then he 

  Mr Deputy Speaker: The debate has ended, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, the debate has ended. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I wish to thank the Members who have spoken on the Bill, all of whom have supported, including the Member for Potong Pasir which, to my memory, is the first time that he has spoken in support of a Government Bill. I think his speech was on the whole constructive and we welcome it. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir who supported the Bill expressed a doubt as to whether public opinion against corruption is strong enough and whether the Government should take steps to build up such opinion. He has missed my speech in the 

    I forgot to refer to some of the other points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir concerning details of the Teh Cheang Wan matter. But these are not within the 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, let us get this Bill passed and if the Member for Potong Pasir has specific questions as to the implementation of the Bill, he can raise them later. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Sir, I thank the Members who have spoken. Before replying to specific comments, may I just state a general point by way of preface, ie, we have banned fireworks 16 years ago. And either a ban is a ban or it is not. This year, there has been an unprecedented number of violations, nearly 4,000 for January and February. The Member for Potong Pasir is entitled to his conclusion that it is because of the dragon year. But I tend to share the explanations given by others that the real reason is that there is a plentiful supply outside Singapore and that is the view of the Police officers also. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir felt that the penalties are manifestly excessive. He referred particularly to the penalties for those charged for trafficking. I think he made two points. The first point was that there is no discretion given. This is not quite correct. There is discretion given within which the courts can take into account the circumstances of the case. The penalty is "a term of not less than 6 months and not more than 2 years." In other words, there is a minimum of six months and not more than two years, and within this range the court can take into account factors so that they can determine whether to give a penalty of more than six months or up to two years. Similarly, caning with not more than six strokes. But it means the court has a discretion whether to impose a sentence with a maximum of six strokes or whether it will be just one stroke. So there is a discretion and it is not correct to say --- 

  hoiyung: Let us have your supplementary question, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Where is your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? Let us not waste time. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, no. Anybody who looks at the lease of the HUDC flats will know that there is no such rule that the owners who want to sell their HUDC flats in the first five years must sell them to HDB. They have to give HDB the first option, and it is up to the HDB whether it wants to buy or not. As a professional lawyer in practice, I think the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir must have come across sales agreements on properties and it is not unusual to put conditions on the property to be transacted. I have come across many agreements which say that if Mr A is selling a property to Mr B at a certain price, maybe at a certain concessionary price, and if Mr B wants to sell that property again he has to give Mr A the first option to purchase, and it is for Mr A to decide whether he wants to buy back that property or not. If Mr A decides not to buy back that property, then Mr B is allowed to sell the property to a third party. This is the usual clause. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think I admit that the Member for Anson is dishonest. He is trying to mislead the public. Nowhere is this stated in the lease agreement and perhaps I will senda copy of the lease agreement for the enlightenment of both the Member for Anson and Member for Potong Pasir. Nowhere is it stated in the lease agreement that HDB has to buy back the flats from the HUDC flat owners. Also, nowhere is it stated that HDB has to buy back these flats at the original selling price. So the Member for Anson is trying to dishonestly, in his usual tactic of rumour -mongering, mislead the people by inserting that clause that HDB has such an obligation. I challenge the Member for Anson to produce the lease agreement which states that HDB has to buy back the flat and HDB has to pay the original price of the HUDC flats when HDB buys back from the owners. Please produce that lease agreement. 

 the HUDC flats and that is what the Member for Anson is trying to mislead the people. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not wish to continue to repeat the same thing. What I want to say is that HDB is strictly following the lease agreement and if the Member for Anson can produce to me the lease agreement which says that HDB has not honoured its obligation, then I will concede that he is correct. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Potong Pasir is confused. Both the HUDC flat and HDB flat are governed by HDB rules. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, will you please sit down! 

  hoiyung: Let us have your supplementary question, Mr Chiam. 

  Mr Speaker: Let us call this End of Question Time since the Member for Potong Pasir seems to be a bit confused. 

  The Minister for Home Affairs and the Second Minister for Law (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Speaker, Sir, may I ask a question of the Member for Anson? Will he also give me a copy of the signed statement which he said was the sole basis on which he raised the complaint in the House? 

    (2) deplores as dishonourable the conduct of the Member for Anson in pleading Parliamentary Privilege to evade having to give evidence on his allegations of Executive interference, allegations he had made on several occasions in this House, all of which were calculated to undermine confidence in the independence, impartiality and integrity of the Subordinate Courts Judiciary.". - [Minister for Home Affairs and Second Minister for Law]. 

  Mr Speaker: hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I really feel impelled to say a few words. Members of this House know that I am not in the habit of criticizing Members of the Opposition. It is my belief that every person is entitled to his or her opinion and opinions do differ in anything and everything. But making false and malicious accusations is another matter altogether. And we have heard too much of this in this House. The Member for Anson, of course --- 

  Mr Speaker: Carry on. Let us have less interruption, hoiyung: The Member for Anson has a long track record of throwing mud at innocent parties. But this matter is really getting too serious to be tolerated. Just yesterday --- 

    However, we all know that an independent Judiciary is basic to the structure of our nation. Therefore, if the work of the Senior District Judge can be influenced by the Executive, by non-legal considerations, it then follows that people will think that the independence of other Judges in the District Courts can similarly be influenced. And the Member for Anson himself mentioned this possibility. Therefore, I think this matter was taken up very rightfully and we have heard the evidence. We have seen his shifty behaviour in court. I beg your pardon. I withdraw that. We have seen his shifty behaviour at the Commission of Inquiry and we have seen his shifty behaviour in this House, right up to five minutes ago. He is shifty all the time apparently. 

  hoiyung: Therefore, I would suggest that the Member for Anson owes a full apology to this House, to the people and especially to the Chief Justice; for the wrong that he has done to everybody, for the wilful way in which he has misled or tried to mislead at any rate the people. All this has caused a great wastage of time and effort and money if we start to count it. Surely, we have better things to do in this House than to waste a lot of time debating on empty, irrelevant, and things which are clearly proven to be untrue. How can we Members, honourable Members of this House, stand up and start saying things about the Police, the Judiciary, persons and institutions without any evidence beforehand? It really pains me, Mr Speaker, Sir, that such behaviour should be seen in this House. I would repeat my suggestion that the Member for Anson owes us and the people and particularly the Chief Justice, even Mr Michael Khoo, a 

  hoiyung: To me that is a very telling point. The Member for Anson made a lot of allegations in this House. But he too refused to give evidence and the way he did it was somewhat cleverer than he usually is. He imposed impossible conditions --- 

    Sir, the Member for Anson at the inquiry insisted on calling four or five witnesses. But when he was called upon to give in writing the grounds upon which he was calling these witnesses, he did not do so. 

  hoiyung: Let us have less interruption, hoiyung: Earlier on I was outside this Chamber and I overhead a conversation and somebody was saying "that man (meaning the Member for Anson) is as slippery as an eel." To me, Sir, it is worse than that. His behaviour is reminiscent of a snake. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, he was not referring to you. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: I do not know how to describe people who like snakes or people who behave like snakes. Sir, I did not call the Member for Anson a snake. I said his behaviour reminds me of a snake. 

  hoiyung: But, of course, if one continues to behave like a snake, eventually there could be a physical transformation. Sir, we have seen nothing but negative, malicious, destructive, criticisms and behaviour in this House by the Member for Anson, and not far behind, the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I believe I have an hour and I will take that hour, if necessary, to go into what is wrong with some of the things said by the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Sir, what is obvious to us in this House and to the people of Singapore is that the Member for Anson is seeking to tear down our system. By that I refer to those institutions, those values which have been painstakingly built up over the last 26 years. 

  Mr Speaker: I had earlier this afternoon indicated to the hon. Member for Anson that I would allow him to move his amendment to the Question before the House. 

  hoiyung: You said the Member for Potong Pasir will move the amendment? 

  hoiyung: Yes, I have so ruled. But the Member for Potong Pasir can move your amendment provided he alone speaks, not you. 

    For the last two days, Parliament has been debating on a very important issue, ie, whether there are doubts about the independence of our Judiciary. From the speech made by the Member for Anson, it is obvious that he is systematically and calculatingly trying to cause members of the public to doubt our Judiciary. This is a very serious matter and the consequences are also serious. The Government had to spend a lot of time and energy to set up a Commission to look into the allegations of 

 the Member for Anson to see whether there are any foundations to his allegations. His allegations would create, not only in the minds of our people but also through newspapers and media reporting, an undesirable impression on foreigners. In other words, the integrity and upright image of our Republic which has been built through years of efforts will be seriously undermined by his allegations if they are not rebutted. 

    The allegations made by the Member for Anson is not a slip of the tongue. He is systematically and calculatingly undermining the foundation of our society. He has also alleged by giving the example of the arrests of certain persons without cause or reason. If such allegations were not disproved, it would cause undesirable consequences. He has raised these allegations in this House which provides him with certain privileges so that he could speak his mind without hindrance or obstruction. But outside Parliament,thousands of our people can discern whether his allegations are correct or wrong. 

    His attitude displayed in this House by making unfounded allegations over and over again, is an abuse of the privileges given by the sacred institution of Parliament whose Members are elected by the people. So any responsible Member should not do that. We as Members of Parliament enjoy these privileges and we cannot be prosecuted for our speeches made here. But we must be responsible and we must have the duty to see that our allegations must be well founded. We must be responsible for our speeches made here. Has the Member for Anson this responsibility in mind? Obviously not. For example, he pointed out one Lim Poh Huat who was arrested by the Police. 

  In Mandarin): The Police has spent a lot of time and effort to make investigations. Only then did he recognize the falsity of his allegations and withdrew them. He could raise such allegations because he had the duty, as he said, to raise such questions in the House. I would like to ask him: as a Member of Parliament, should he be a parrot without a brain, or be an honourable Member with a rational mind? I believe that every Member of Parliament, before making any allegations in the House, should make a careful investigation. The Member for Anson not only raised unfounded allegations but he also broke his promises. This is manifested in the fact that he did not give evidence as promised. He has said in the House that whatever he said in this House could be counted upon, but in the end it turned out not to be so. This kind of false promises is a very serious fault. 

    If a Member of Parliament could break his promises, how could the people entrust their matters to him? During these two days of debate, on many occasions and many a time, the Member for Anson has demonstrated his trickery in debating by shifting ground. When his allegation of a particular person being imprisoned was rebutted, he shifted his ground and talked of other things, saying that there are other people who have been arrested for more than 24 hours and who could not contact members of their family. In this way, his original allegation was laid aside. 

 enough to face any issues or allegations. We would not do anything against our conscience and we are not like ostriches burying our heads in the sand. But what kind of attitude has the Member for Anson been adopting? We can all see for ourselves. The matter arose in this House and then there was the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry. Now the matter has been referred back to Parliament and there is another chance for him to talk about it. I would infer that even with another Commission of Inquiry, the matter would still come back to Parliament. Why? As I have said, his purpose is to systematically destroy the foundation of our nationhood. I would like to ask the Member for Anson whether to act in such a way would be good for himself and his children. If the foundation of the society is shaken, what good would it bring to the Member for Anson and his children? I think the motion by the Minister for Home Affairs is very appropriate because we cannot allow the situation to persist. We must not allow these irresponsible allegations to go without challenge. To allow this would bring disgrace to our sacred Parliament and would have aspersions cast upon it. 

    '(2) regrets the failure of the Commissioner to give the assurance sought by the Member for Anson before the Member gave evidence and which failure prevented the Commission from inquiring into the Terms of Reference.' 

 the Backbench and one from the Government side. The Member for Ulu Pandan has said that there is a waste of a lot of time and the Member for Whampoa says that there is a sense of outrage. And, of course, we get the usual lecture from the Parliamentary Secretary. If they were really so alarmed and there was a sense of outrage, why were they so quiet? Nothing was done for two months. It is obvious that either the allegations were properly rebutted and they thought nothing of that after that, or they did not realize the gravity of it, or they were just indifferent. It is only when the Prime Minister, after coming back from a trip, as he has stated, and the allegations made again, that he came into the House to confront the Member for Anson, and we knew what happened then. In the first instance, Ministers, Government members and Backbenchers thought nothing of it. It is obvious there are two thinkings on this matter - the Prime Minister on his own, Cabinet and other Members on the other side. If they thought alike, they would have brought this matter up in the first place. So it is obvious that it is the initiation of the Prime Minister. None of the Ministers here initiated this whole thing. And they said that there was a waste of time. 

  hoiyung: And that is the position the Member has adopted or is it the position that he is putting forward for the Member for Anson? 

  hoiyung: I am asking the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: I have heard the Member for Anson at great length. I want to hear from the Member for Potong Pasir from whom I have some exceptional pearls, not necessarily of wisdom. 

    '(2) regrets the failure of the Commissioner to give the assurance sought by the Member for Anson before the Member gave evidence and which failure prevented the Commission from inquiring into the Terms of Reference.' 

  In Malay): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to speak against the amendment moved by the Member for Potong Pasir on behalf of the Member for Anson. 

    I feel rather disappointed when the Member for Potong Pasir hastily asked why, after the setting up of the Commission of Inquiry, there was no reaction forthcoming until today. And he explained in an insinuating manner that all the members of the Cabinet in the Singapore Government did not take any action except when they were prompted to do so. But later he himself realized that the person who moved the motion to accept the Report and to debate it was the Minister for Home Affairs who started off the debate before the arrival of the Prime Minister. The House did not debate the motion after the Prime Minister had entered the House. So even if, on a simple matter which is already clear, the Member for Potong Pasir who sits in front is unable to draw a rational conclusion, what more when it comes to his suggestions about freedom of debate in Parliament? 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, later on I wish to expose the tactics adopted by the Opposition, stage by stage, in order to undermine Singapore's stability. However, before I do so, let me comment on some of his points of clarification in which he implied that all the Government backbenchers act only when prompted to do so. He gave example of how the Member for Whampoa varied his tone and style of delivery when the Prime Minister walked into the House as though he could see all these when he himself is seated with his back to the Member for Whampoa. Maybe the Member for Potong Pasir has four eyes such that he could see from the rear the changing reactions in the course of the debate. However, that is the way how both the Members for Anson and Potong Pasir draw their conclusion. 

  In Malay): I am not giving way. The Member for Potong Pasir has stated that the move to set up a Commission of Inquiry and to ask the Member for Anson to give evidence at the Commission of Inquiry is ultra vires the Standing Orders of the House. He went on to say that every Member of this House has absolute freedom of speech and that this freedom of speech could not be questioned or investigated into in any Court. If that is the correct situation, I feel that the Member for Anson who is learned and the Member for Potong Pasir is not less learned because both of them are lawyers who are supposed to be knowledgeable, but after the Commission of Inquiry had concluded its findings and its Report tabled before us today, the Member for Potong Pasir says that the Report runs counter to the Constitution and on that ground is not valid and should be rejected. After having spent tens of thousands of dollars in response to the Opposition's suggestion that a Commission of Inquiry be set up, now the Opposition says that the setting up of such a Commission is a waste of time and money. I wish to ask this House today whether this idea or proposition that this issue be taken up by the Commission of Inquiry was initiated by the Government or Opposition? If we peruse the Hansard, it is clear that it is the Opposition that wants this Commission of Inquiry because prior to this they had been drumming up for one after another Commission of Inquiry to look into a multiplicity of issues. The idea or suggestion of a Commission of Inquiry was initiated by the Opposition and the Government whose stand in the matter is one of fairness and openness, and it is the intention of the Government to go through this to the end and in the process expose how the Opposition tried to exploit facilities for their own ends. There are two political motives to this. 

  hoiyung: When did I expand on the allegations of the Member for Anson? Can you please tell me? 

  In Malay): When the Member for Anson mentioned two additional names besides Mr Michael 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, if you do not understand Malay, please listen to the translation. 

  hoiyung: I have repeated three times that the two names were given by the Member for Anson, not from the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    The Member for Anson seemingly appears in earnest when he said that he spoke purely in defence of the judicial system. I think what he has done is actually the opposite. He has raised question marks, cast doubts among the people through this debate which is telecast to homes so that the people of Singapore lose confidence in the present Government and prospective investors shy away from Singapore. Is this then the action of a man who is honest, is this more patriotic, is this the manner in which he can provide long-term benefits to our workers whom he represents? I certainly think not. He 

 wants at the end of it all the investors to doubt the political stability of Singapore, to have doubts about the judicial system and thereby shy away from investing in Singapore. If this materializes, who will be the first victims? Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the first victims will be no other than our own workers who will be unemployed. Secondly, our people will suffer as they will be homeless. And thirdly, our businessmen who form the backbone of our economy. Professionals like the Member for Anson can easily take refuge overseas but those who will really suffer are the people of Singapore. We are the people of Singapore. In the circumstances, we must defend that there is no truth whatsoever, it is a lie, in the allegation of Executive interference in the administration of our country. 

    On this note, I oppose the amendment motion of the Member for Potong Pasir and I support the motion moved by the Minister for Home Affairs which states that Parliament accept the Report of the Commission of Inquiry and rejects the allegation of Executive interference of the Opposition. 

Jeyaretnam, J.B.                Ho Tat Kin

  The Prime Minister: Mr Speaker, Sir, I was in my office at work and listening to the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: I am not, Mr Speaker, Sir. I was just about to explain to the Member for Anson that I am here because of the queries he raised. If he does not want me to clarify, I will not. Amongst other things, I looked up Mr Yong Yung Sui and Mr Jeffrey Chan. My secretary had Mr Glenn Knight to look them up. We can leave it if you like. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, on a point of order. Surely it is not for the Member for Anson to rule what is a clarification and what is not a clarification. 

    A second tack now is that all High Court Judges are disqualified from holding a commission of inquiry because they are all unsuitable since he wrote to me in a letter explaining why they should not investigate the Chief Justice. Then, lo and behold, the Member for Potong Pasir goes one step further and says that any commission of inquiry, never mind by whom, whether it is a High Court Judge or anybody else, is prohibited by reason of section 4 of the Privileges Act. I can therefore only conclude that the Member for Anson does not want to pick up my --- 

    Jeffrey Chan. We were told that he acquitted a person defended by the Member for Anson of a CBD offence. He ruled that there was no case to answer. 

  hoiyung: The public prosecutor appealed. The Member for Anson appeared for the appellant. 

    In 1985 the three-year extension expired and the situation did not improve. He has another three-year extension. I do not know whether there will be an improvement. I do know that it is a Bar that is barren of talent. I have said so in this House and I explained it in the 1985 Budget debate, 1982 Budget debate, special lawyers' professional allowances, to retain them. Every year our best students go into medicine, and then engineering, and now the computer sciences. There are very few lawyers until recently, so much so that we have had to send scholar engineers, already graduated, on a special two-year course to convert into lawyers, to go abroad to get the necessary polish to come back and make up time. This is how parlous the situation is. So for the Member for Anson to make these allegations that they have been extended beyond their retirement age because they will be beholden to me, is I think --- 

  hoiyung: He is. He has to discharge the duties of the Chief Legal Officer. The fact that the Member for Anson asserts it with great authority in his voice does not make it sound. It is not so. It is in the Constitution that he is a member of the permanent service. He does not go with each election. He is there. 

 included those who graduated from British and Commonwealth universities and allowed, under special provisions, the Attorney-General to approve senior, experienced and eminent counsel in Hong Kong to register here. That was just before the 1984 agreement which, because it was successful, led to no recruitment. That is how parlous the situation is. Do I appoint Ananda Subhas, that standard, M.P.D. Nair who appears for the Member for Anson in his cases? Are we really serious --- 

  hoiyung: But I can only assume that the Judges are extremely careful when they write their judgments, that it will stand scrutiny. And if it does not, they get sparks knocked off them. It is an eminently reasonable arrangement, has worked and will work. Until the Member for Anson came along, nobody had any doubts as to the integrity of the Courts. But first he attacked the Subordinate Courts Judiciary, exempting the High Court Judges from his strictures. Now he has condemned Mr Sinnathuray, the Attorney-General, the Chief Justice, and he has also ruled out all High Court Judges from hearing the Commission on the allegations he made. So he has broadened out over a wide field. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has carried the logic of the extension one step further. Since there is no proof, there is no evidence whatsoever, that any member of the Executive interfered in the workings of the Courts, because the Judges regulated themselves and promoted themselves, it has nothing to do with the Government. He now says, because I have been here for 25 years, I have become so dominant, so dominating, such a big banyan tree with such wide-spreading roots, that they all do my bidding. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not know about the Member for Whampoa, whether or not he slowed down when I came in. If he did, I can only assume that perhaps what he was saying was tendentious. I have two hands, two eyes, two feet, less teeth than I started off life with. And I do my job to maintain the system so that it will last, what we have built can survive the creator generation. This is a very serious problem. And if they do not know how to deal with roughnecks, like the Member for Anson, then this whole thing will go upside down. I would never allow any challenge to the integrity of the system to go past and it should never be allowed. Therefore, we shall have this opportunity to hear the Member for Anson add the essential ingredients that will transform this picture and show that there were reasons why Judges as they wrote their judgments were looking over their shoulders, fearful, transferred out, demoted, humiliated and therefore all judgments went in accordance with the wishes of the Government or the Prime Minister. It is an absurd, ludicrous proposition. Given time, we will look up and dig up all the judgments that Mr Michael Khoo gave which were reversed and he still stayed on. I do not know how many. 

 Mr Chiam ought to be fixed, you know. He is a strange man." It is not the way a government is run. If you run a government thataway, you end up --- 

  hoiyung: --- then the whole system must be undermined. We are not concerned with the Member for Anson as such. And as for the Member for Potong 

  hoiyung: There was nothing in the statutory declaration which said that she had a telephone conversation with the Member for Anson, and I was reading the Chief Justice's judgment. I know nothing about the case. The Chief Justice deliberated on the appeal and that was his judgment. 

 he acquitted Jeyaretnam of three charges and convicted him of one. No. What was in my mind, reading the judgment, was that here was the Chief Justice struggling very hard to find reasons to explain the Lower Court's decision and, finding evidence to the contrary, therefore he wrote that judgment. The Chief Justice could have just reversed it, but he went further. He spelt out the reasons - he could not observe, analyze. 

  hoiyung: On a point of great pertinence because I think this is a fair proposition which I will put to the Member for Anson very fairly. 

 owned up. If that is so, I am prepared to have an inquiry into his innocence or guilt. But I have never heard any question about guilt or innocence. It is all about "poor Mr Michael Khoo who got transferred because he acquitted him." Was he right or was he wrong? The Chief Justice found that he was wrong and stated so. If the Member for Anson believes that the Chief Justice was misled, that there were facts not dug up, either in the Lower Court or before the Chief Justice, petition the President, we will have an inquiry and get down to the facts. That is worth it. Is he an honest man or is he a crook? That is all. 

  Mr Speaker: You have already spoken, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson had his say. 

    Let me remind ourselves of the points that I made at the beginning of my statement yesterday that the issues are grave and serious, that it concerns attacks on fundamental institutions, in this case, the Judiciary. The second point which I made was that such serious allegations, which bring into total disrepute our Judiciary, will have to be scrutinized, facts established, truth determined. As far as the Government side is concerned, it has been made clear by our statements here that we really have nothing to hide. Members have heard the Prime Minister offering as many opportunities to have all that the Member for Anson claims he was shut out from being heard. The Member for Anson was offered another Commission of Inquiry or reappointment of the Commission of Inquiry. Today, he referred to the letter he wrote to the Prime Minister where it is clear he is not in favour of any High Court Judge being Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry. 

    But if the Member for Anson insists, as he has insisted, that he was shut out, as we have made it clear on the Government side and as the Prime Minister has made it clear, he will be given every opportunity in Parliament, in a Committee. The Leader of the House will make a suitable statement later. He will be given every opportunity in this House to call the witnesses to adduce the evidence that he wants. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, before I proceed further I see that the Member for Potong Pasir has left. His amendment, acting as a proxy for the Member for Anson, is truly ludicrous. He wanted to amend paragraph (2) but he did not want to amend paragraph (1) of the motion and therefore he was in agreement with the motion to accept the Report of the 

 Commission of Inquiry. Such an absurd amendment moved --- [The Member for Potong Pasir entered the Chamber.]. Yes, I will repeat it for the benefit of the Member for Potong Pasir - that it is ludicrous for the Member for Potong Pasir to move an amendment, no doubt at the behest of the Member for Anson, to delete paragraph (2) and substitute certain words and at the same time to accept paragraph (1), and paragraph (1) of my motion seeks the House to accept the Report of the Commission of Inquiry. That means the Member for Potong Pasir accepts the Report which also includes the findings. So we have an absurd situation where the Member for Potong Pasir, in fact, is telling us that he accepts the Report. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I have said that in the two days the Government made it very clear. We have nothing to hide. The Member for Anson claims that he was shut out. Very well, he will be given full opportunity to adduce the evidence from the witnesses. He will still be given the opportunity. What about the Member for Anson? What has his position been? I think the best way to describe his position is that it has been a convoluted attempt to wriggle out. Yes, to wriggle out. 

    Wriggling-out No. 2. The Member for Anson said --- 

    Wriggling-out No. 2. He said yesterday that he never made any scurrilous attacks on the Chief Justice. I pointed out that the Chief Justice had given a handwritten note to the Prime Minister stating that it was he who made the decision. The Member for Anson did not accept that statement. 

    'The Prime Minister: ...He asked me to have the matter disposed of expeditiously, and to put it to the Member for Anson whether he would not state, without the benefit of privilege, what he has stated here - that the Chief Justice's note and the minute from the Legal Service Commission is not the last word...' The Chief Justice was astounded, asked the Prime Minister whether he would put it to the Member for Anson whether he would repeat it outside. The Prime Minister put the request on two occasions. The press asked him after he left the House and he did not repeat it. Yesterday, he denied that this was a scurrilous attack. What happened today? Today, he made an even more atrocious remark that the Chief Justice, because he was reappointed, "is beholden to the Prime Minister." If there is any attack on the integrity of the Chief Justice, this surely must be it. 

 did not go into the witness box was because the Commissioner had not given the assurance that he sought. I read out the quotations yesterday. They were clear. If he wants, I can read out the quotations again: that the Member for Anson had in the morning claimed qualified privilege, that he would waive privilege; in the afternoon he made a 180-degree turnaround, said that "this is an absolute prohibition, it is not a privilege that can be waived." 

  hoiyung: From the quotations that the Member for Anson - 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think we adjourn for five minutes and resume so that the technicians can adjust the television. This must be shown because the Member for Anson repeatedly denies that he said this. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Thank you. Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the truth must hurt. The afternoon session was one continuous run. The Member for Anson took the position --- 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson alleges --- 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Thank you. I gave quotations yesterday. The Member for Anson challenged the source of the quota- 

  hoiyung: The public can judge and there is no better source of judging than the recorded truth. The Member for Anson takes the position that it is absolute prohibition. And you do not have to be a lawyer to know that absolute prohibition means what it says. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I shall be grateful if the Member for Anson does not interrupt. 

  hoiyung: Will you please sit down, hoiyung: The only person who has misled this House is the Member for Anson and he himself yesterday withdrew an allegation admitting that he had misled the House. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson wants to watch the whole tape, we can arrange it. We can make a request to the SBC. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson wants to side-track us from the issue before hand. And the issue before hand concerns his allegations of Executive interference in the Subordinate Court Judiciary. If he wants to bring forth some grave constitutional legal arguments about other matters, he is free to do so. He alleges unconstitutionality in the conferment of 

Lee Yock Suan                   Jeyaretnam, J.B.

    (2) deplores as dishonourable the conduct of the Member for Anson in pleading Parliamentary Privilege to evade having to give evidence on his allegations of Executive interference, allegations he had made on several occasions in this House, all of which were calculated to undermine confidence in the independence, impartiality and integrity of the Subordinate Courts Judiciary. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, Parliament has come to a decision on the motion moved by the Second Minister for Law. We have had a very long debate and I do not intend to repeat all the points made. It is very clear to the House that the Member for Anson is guilty of an abuse of privilege and seriously guilty because, in his own words, "erosion of confidence in the administration of justice is disastrous to our society." He knows exactly what he is setting about to do. He has failed to justify his allegations before the Commission of Inquiry on the preposterous argument that he is prohibited by law to give evidence. He has not only persisted in his allegations during the debate that has just been concluded, but he has widened his smear to include the Chief Justice and the Attorney-General and the other Judges of the High Court. 

    I therefore wish to move, Mr Speaker, Sir, under the Standing Order that I quoted, that the matter be referred to the Committee of Privileges and be merged with my complaint of 19th March 1986, and be taken together. If the Member for Anson pleads justification, he can give evidence to substantiate his allegations, and I am sure, Mr Speaker, Sir, that he will be given every opportunity to substantiate his allegations. He will also be given the opportunity to call any witness that he likes to give evidence to back his allegations. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson may yet regret his supplementary question. We follow British parliamentary practice when it makes good sense to do so. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Anson feels that the Pensions Regulations are inadequate, then we should have a debate on the Pensions Regulations. I believe today's question is on the accidents. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, may I first correct a misinterpretation there on the part of the Member for Anson. I did not say that my Ministry does not have the information on people who have been unemployed for more than six months. I am sure we have the figures but I am not quite sure whether they are in the form that he wants them. 

    I think the Hon. Minister for Home Affairs and Second Minister for Law has made out a case in moving the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (Amendment) Bill, particularly Articles 134 and 135. As I see in the explanatory statement, these are very explicit, Therefore, I would like to refer my remarks to what was said by the Member for Anson. The first point that he made was on nationality and citizenship which, he said, is a very personal right. I would have thought that nationality and citizenship are two different things. In the case of nationality, a nation can be made of one kind of people. The same goes with 

    I would like to reiterate, in today's debate, that Articles 134 and 135 have been redrafted and re-enacted, as the Hon. Minister has pointed out, to avoid duplication. And here, I must congratulate the Government for its assurance that this amendment, being an empowering one, that in its implementation the Government would be very selective with regard to the deprivation of citizenship. So I agree with what my good friend, the Member for Clementi, has said, that the Member for Anson has been the champion of non-citizens or of taking up questions of citizenship. I tried to dig up Hansard, and I found the questions very similar in March 1982,1983 and 1984, Sir. So I am not at all surprised. But I thought I ought to point out that when the voters of Anson voted him in, their interests should be looked after, and not the interests of non-citizens. 

 Singapore choose to come back now? Of course, I have taken note of what he has explained in moving the Second Reading of the Bill. But I thought I ought to make a few points along the way because, when I heard the Member for Anson trying to make out a case, I said, "Here we go again, as he has always been seen to be." Are we for or against Singapore? On that note, Sir, I support the Bill. 

    The Member for Anson confines himself to the question of rights, but here we are talking about provisions for deprivation of citizens who have for all practical purposes given up their rights. They have given up their rights because they have exercised the rights of nationals abroad, because they have stayed away for more than 10 years. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I wish to thank the Members who have spoken in support of the Bill; in particular, they have saved me considerable time in replying to the points made by the Member for Anson because the Members who have spoken have put the matter in correct perspective. In other words, when we talk of constitutional rights and of citizenship rights, let us also talk of duties and responsibilities, and that is the context in which we should view this measure. 

    When we come to the Member for Anson's points, as I have said, many of his criticisms have been answered by preceding speakers. I think we must come back to see the parameters of this provision. What are they? Does the amendment give us arbitrary powers to deprive any citizen on any grounds? Let us recall the principal feature of Article 135(i)(c). It is concerned with citizens who have been continuously abroad, ordinarily resident, for 10 years or more. That is the first ingredient. The second ingredient is that during this period of 10 years he has not even once come back to Singapore on a travel document issued by the Singapore authorities or on a certificate of status. That is the parameter of Article 135(l)(c). So, in reply to the question posed by the Member for Anson as to why we are doing this, the correct question has been posed by the Member for Clementi, ie, let us ask: how do these persons who stayed away for 10 years or more and never returned to Singapore once on a Singapore passport or travel document justify their continued citizenship to be recognized? That is the question. I have also spelt out the problems that we have which must be tackled in this amendment. 

    The Member for Anson has raised this matter on the level of international law. He has quoted Oppenheim as authority for the proposition that what we are seeking to do is retrogressive and he has implied that this is somehow inconsistent with international law. I think if he wants to quote Oppenheim or any other known works of international law, he should also tell this House that the cardinal principle in public international law is, as far as nationality and citizenship are concerned, that questions of nationality and citizenship under international law are within the sovereign right of each country to decide. 

  hoiyung: Why did the Member for Anson not say so? 

    Sir, the Member for Anson also asks whether I could clarify if the phrase "travel document or certificate of status issued by the competent authority of Singapore" does or does not include a travel document issued under the United Nations Convention on Refugees. Of course, it does not. The plain meaning of the words must be clear even to a non-lawyer - a certificate of status or travel document issued by the competent authorities in Singapore. It does not include any other travel document than that mentioned in this provision. 

    The Member for Anson talks about statelessness. He talks about Articles 134 and 145 being applicable to all categories of citizens. I should like to point out that Articles 134 and 135, even as they stand under the present Constitution, make no distinction between citizens by birth and other categories. They apply to all categories. In that sense, we have not differed in the approach. Secondly, the present Articles 134 and 135 are not subject to the condition of the persons not being rendered stateless although in the implementation of this provision my Ministry will take into account the question of statelessness as one of the factors in arriving at a decision. 

  Ong Teng Cheong           Jeyaretnam, J.B.

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, my Party and I join my colleague, the Member for Anson, in congratulating Mr Wee Kim Wee for his appointment to this very high and prestigious office. I am sure he will be known as the President of the people and he has made a point that he wants to lead his normal social life, and I believe he is the one man who will probably succeed in that - holding a very high office and at the same time leading the life of an ordinary person. I welcome the appointment of Mr Wee Kim Wee to this very high office. 

    I think the main point raised by the Member for Anson was that the measures which would disallow motor cyclists with PDL from going on the public roads after the commencement of operation of this Act would be unfair, that it is retroactive, and so on. I do not think I can agree with him that it is retroactive because nearly two years' notice has been given of this measure, and such ample notice was given precisely to enable them to take full advantage of the opportunities and facilities which we have provided for them to obtain the QDL. Just to give an example to the Member of the facilities which allowed so many to pass. At the end of 31st December, 1984, there were 17,678 "L" riders - persons in possession of PDLs. At the end of 31st July, 1985, there were only 7,013. In other words, during this period, more than 10,400 PDL holders took advantage of the facilities and got their QDLs. Now, as to the remaining figures, I do not think it is retroactive for them. If they were given repeated chances, some as many as three or four, and they still did not make it, the question is: do we want to put them on the road when they have failed to pass the test after three times? Do we want to put them on the public roads? Will it be safe for them and for other members of the public? This residual figure also includes an unknown quantity of persons who have taken provisional 

    The point raised by the Member concerning the drafting - I myself have had this checked with the draftsman, the Attorney-General's Chambers, and I am assured that clause 4 of section 36, as amended, although worded in that way, would have the effect that we intend, that is to say, after the commencement of the operation of the Act, we will not be issuing PDLs to any motor cycle riders. The Member for Anson also wanted certain figures of motor cyclist fatalities vis-a-vis other fatalities. I do not have those figures here, but if he wants, I can supply him those figures at a later date. 

 operation. I have pointed out in an interview with Lianhe Zaobao on 18th July, that CPF contribution rate should not be used as an anti-cyclical measure. The CPF is not a levy; it is part of a worker's total wage. Reduction in employer's contribution rate alone will reduce worker's pay and worker's savings. Reduction in employee's contribution rate alone will reduce his savings but not his employer's operating costs. And reduction in CPF from both sides, employer and employee, as the Member for Anson once suggested, will reduce the worker's pay, his saving and his ability to own a flat. So let us not fiddle with CPF contribution rates, unless we are really facing a crisis. 

  hoiyung: Question No. 3, Sir, on behalf of Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the answer is no. Perhaps the hon. Member for Anson could enlighten me if he has got evidence of any such instances. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, had the Member for Anson been honest with the members of the public in reproducing an article from The Star in the Hammer, he would have got the reason for the officer's attendance at the conference. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the claim is as stated in the article: that he is a bright, young citizen in the public service of Singapore. And it is our policy to send our bright, young, civil servants to attend international conferences. It is to expose them and to acquaint them with international matters so that they will be better officers. Whether they are in the SAF or in the Administrative Service, it does not matter. That is the policy. If the Member for Anson is a gentleman, he should, in fact, print in the next issue of the Hammer an apology to The Star. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson is getting frivolous. Does he want me to list all the young officers in the SAF for Members of the House? It would be wasting our time. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you ask a question and you give the answer yourself. 

  hoiyung: Where is your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: From what we see in the papers, the papers also report on the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir. So it is not just reporting news regarding the Government. 

    Sir, as an example, Members of this House may like to know that the Member for Potong Pasir has a Question for Written Answer addressed to the Hon. Minister for National Development. He asks for the number of HDB tenants who are in arrears in the mortgage instalments for more than 60 days from the years 1975 to 1985 with breakdown in amounts by nine categories. The Hon. Minister has, in his written answer, replied that it would cost not less than $200,000 in terms of manpower and computer cost for HDB to provide all the information. 

 years. It is my business to take advice from those who can give me advice. It is not my business to have to convince the Member for Anson that Mr Rajaratnam was a valuable aide. 

  hoiyung: I am telling the Member for Anson that he should read his reports. At no time did I say that the stability of Singapore was a subject of discussion with my counterparts in the People's Republic of China. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think the Member for Anson has got his geography right at these conferences. We do not line up with each other. We do not stand behind each other, and I needed no skirts to protect me. My position was clear. It so happened that I had an interview, I think, with ITN, on the morning the subject came up for debate, and I made it quite clear that we were in favour of sanctions to send the right signals. As far as I was concerned, the majority of the members were also in favour. Mrs Thatcher was not. In the event, the outcome did not mention the word "sanctions" because they wanted unanimity. And so it was - no sanctions. 

  hoiyung: I understand the motives of the Member for Potong Pasir. He wants to ingratiate himself, reassure the private sector that as a result of his intervention they are going to get a lion's share of this China consultancy business. 

  Mr Speaker: It has been proposed by the Member for Anson, as an amendment, to seek to leave out the words from "Government" in line 8 to the end, and there to insert the words as proposed. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I support the motion of the Member for Anson, and I would like to speak on the two motions together. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, can I make a point of clarification here? I think the Member for Potong Pasir was not listening to my speech just now. He was only trying to find ways and means to ridicule. I did not say five families in one bedroom. I said "five to seven people to one bedroom" and that I am only just one of the grateful Singaporeans who had benefited in living in HDB flats, and that is why I am like any other ordinary Singaporean who will say "Thank you" to those who have given to us. Perhaps both of them, I believe, have not lived in HDB flats before. That is why I think they are so ungrateful and they have an axe to grind against the HDB. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has again repeated his allegation that the HDB is reaping untold profits from the sale of too costly flats. He has supported those of us on the Government side of this House in recognizing and commending HDB's achievements and contributions in the area of public housing. This is evident from the wording of his amendment to the 

    Sir, is the HDB making unseemly profits? The Hon. Minister for National Development had, on the 21st March 1985, explained to this House the various costs involved in putting up a housing estate. He has stated that the HDB is, in fact, losing money. I recall, Sir, that on the same occasion the Hon. Minister for National Development asked the Member for Potong Pasir if he was indeed a liar who distorted facts on the cost of building HDB flats in order to mislead the people. What was the Member's reaction? Did he jump to his feet to protest that he was being maligned? Did he produce more facts and figures to further prove his case? No, Sir, he simply changed the subject of the debate at that moment with another question so that the question of whether he lied or not was left unanswered till this day. 

  hoiyung: That clearly showed how much faith the Member for Potong Pasir had in his own figures and in his own advisers. Sir, today he is repeating the same chant that the HDB is making a profit, yet in the same breath he admitted himself moments ago that the cost of flat must go up because cost of construction goes up. Sir, if he had any faith in his own claim or in his own figures, then should he not have accepted the Hon. Minister for National Development's previous offer to build four blocks of flats and keep the vast profits for himself or for his Party? Again, he chose to evade the issue by asking for ridiculous preconditions. Where is the element of sincerity in the Member for Potong Pasir? Either he believes in his allegation that they are true and show by deeds what his words claimed, or he 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir would have us and the people of Singapore believe in him. But, as the records stand, there is nothing to substantiate his claim to be an honest and sincere seeker of the truth. 

  Mr Tang See Chim (Chua Chu Kang): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to reject the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. 

    I think his amendment is really inconsistent with the preamble of the motion as moved by the Member for Chong Boon. The preamble very clearly shows that the Housing and Development Board has achieved a very substantial degree of public housing for the people of Singapore, and yet in his amendment the Member for Anson asked for a commission of inquiry. The Member for Anson also acknowledges the achievements of the Housing and Development Board, and yet what does he want? At the drop of a pin, indeed even without the drop of a pin, he is asking for a commission of inquiry. What is the purpose of a commission of inquiry? 

  hoiyung: Naturally a commission of inquiry is to be appointed if you think there is something wrong. The Member for Anson himself recognizes the achievements of the Housing and Development Board and yet he wanted a commission of inquiry. In his amendment, he has asked the Commission of Inquiry to inquire into four areas. Areas (1) and (2) are that the present prices charged by the Housing and Development Board are too high. Area (3) is to examine whether or not Government could facilitate the purchase of subsidized housing by citizens in the lower income group. So far as these points are concerned, they have been adequately answered by the mover of the motion, the Member for Chong Boon. 

    What I would do is to spend some time on the fourth point raised by the Member for Anson, and that is, his amendment "to examine all the powers at present exercised by the Housing and Development Board and their justification therefor." By this, he implies that either the Housing and Development Board has been exercising its powers unjustifiably, for which he really has not given us any evidence, or that the Housing and Development Board has powers given to it which are unjustified. 

  hoiyung: Is the Member for Anson seriously saying that the Housing and Development Board can give a notice to quit without reason? If that is so, why does he not take the Housing and Development Board to court? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, a notice to quit simply gives the tenant notice to quit. But what the Member for Anson is alleging is that the Housing and Development Board can give a notice to quit without reason. 

  hoiyung: Of course not! If that is the case, why does the Member for Anson not take the Housing and Development Board to court? Because every notice to quit is made pursuant to a reason. There must be a reason. If there is no reason, you cannot get the tenant out. I think that is the usual habit of the Member for Anson, that is, he is telling half-truths. Even in a notice to quit by a private landowner to a tenant, all you need do is to say that you are served with notice to quit and could you please quit the place within a month, or some period like that, after the service of this notice. The reason is that he has breached a condition. Without a reason, you cannot get the tenant out. 

  hoiyung: That is precisely the reason why I say that the Member for Anson is telling half-truths to this House. The notice to quit need not contain the reason itself but you must have a reason before you can serve the notice to quit. What does that mean? Do you mean to say that the Housing and Development Board can serve a notice to quit on a tenant and get him out of the place without any reason at all? It must have a reason. 

  hoiyung: --- if there is a notice to quit without reason, why does he not take the Housing and Development Board to court? The court would then be able to adjudge that the Housing and Development Board has, for no reason, served a notice on the tenant, and the order would be that the tenant can stay put. The Housing and Development Board will be pronounced wrong. That is precisely why the Member for Anson is always telling half-truths to this House. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has not been giving any reasons to this House why these were draconian powers. In fact, the conditions on which a tenant can be asked to quit are amply spelt out in the Act itself, and if the Member for Anson wants an inquiry there is really no 

    As far as the allegations of the Member for Potong Pasir are concerned, I think they have been adequately answered by the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Finance. All I can say is that what he quoted are not facts and figures but just lies and lies. [Interruption] Anyway, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. He has been offered the opportunity to build houses, and he has not accepted it. If he had accepted it, why did he not build the houses? Therefore, I would suggest that if he thinks the Housing and Development Board is making such large profits, he should accept the offer to him to build the flats so that he would make a lot of money for his Party. 

    For all these reasons, Mr Speaker, Sir, I would reject the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: Mr Speaker, Sir, can I just seek a clarification from the Member for Potong Pasir? It is usually not my habit to speak but, since this matter is of great public significance, I just want him to explain. First, I believe that the Minister for National Development this morning quoted the acquisition cost of land in Potong Pasir as, very roughly, $181 million. Have you got my figure? 

  hoiyung: No. $181 million. The Member for Potong Pasir just now quoted a figure of total land acquired: 5 million sq ft. You said, "land acquired is 5 million sq ft". You claimed just now that the Government is paying $240 or $160 per sq ft. How do you arrive at that figure? 

  hoiyung: So I think that, in future, the public ought to be more aware of what the Member for Potong Pasir says. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I would like to comment on the amendment submitted by the Member for Anson. But before doing so, I would like to comment on some of the points they have made. Both referred to the role of the British colonial government and the SIT concerning the provision of homes for the people of Singapore. Now, if they think that the British colonial government and SIT deserve praise, as we think the HDB does, then they should put a motion before the House and let us debate on that. If they did, and I hope they do, they will be the laughing stock of Singapore. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson in his introductory remark made a very revealing statement. He referred to the motion put forward by the Member for Chong Boon which refers to the question of home ownership for the lower income group, and he said, "This is not a burning question." I would like the press and the public to take note of this statement --- 

  hoiyung: --- that the Member for Anson is not concerned about the question of home ownership for the lower income group, and yet he professes to be the champion of the lower income group. Mr Speaker, Sir, coming to the amendment put forward by the Member for Anson, I would really like to talk about this tendency on the part of the Opposition MP to suggest ever so often Commission of Inquiries into various matters before the House. 

  hoiyung: His strategy, Mr Speaker, Sir, is very simple. Make false allegations about the Government, produce half-truths, and then say, "The only way to get to the truth is to have a Commission of Inquiry." It is a very simplistic line of strategy, and I do not think intelligent people will be taken in by that line of argument. Just imagine, Mr Speaker, Sir, if we accede to this amendment to have a Commission of Inquiry into the HDB, what is there to prevent the Member for Anson to suggest, henceforth, Commissions of Inquiries into the work- 

  hoiyung: And then there will be so many Commissions of Inquiries involving considerable finance, manpower, and we will not be surprised that at the end of it, the Member for Anson will come before Parliament and say, "I would like to have a Commission of Inquiry to end all Commissions of Inquiries." 

    The Member for Potong Pasir mentioned the fact that the HDB is a political weapon of the Government, implying that the HDB in some way or another has discriminated against Opposition MPs. Here again, Mr Speaker, Sir, we have an example of not a half-truth but of an Opposition MP lying to the House and to the public. Let me state what the position is with regard to the treatment of MPs by the HDB. And if the Member for Potong Pasir refutes my points, then he should stand up and say so. All MPs, irrespective of whether they are PAP MPs or Opposition MPs, are given certain privileges, for example, the allocation of an MP's office. And both Opposition MPs have their offices allocated to them by the HDB. 

  hoiyung: Well, the Member for Potong Pasir said, "not yet". But he has already been allocated and his office is in the process of --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is very impatient. He should be patient and he will get his due. Then there is the question of the issue of HDB parking labels. Well, if you look at his car, he has got the HDB parking label --- 

    And last but not least, the referrals which all MPs submit to the HDB on behalf of their constituencies. They are given due attention, and I am sure the Opposition MPs cannot deny that. Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Opposition MPs feel that there is serious wrongdoing, or if there are wrongdoings of whatever nature on the part of the HDB, they should so state it specifically and let the public know. And I am sure the Minister will have to respond to those allegations if they can be substantiated by facts. Otherwise, they are again misleading the House and the public, and I would call for the rejection of the amendment put forward by the Member for Anson. 

  In Mandarin): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson seems to have a liking for suggesting the setting up of various commissions of inquiry to investigate into one thing or another. I was told that in China there was one joke. In a certain place there was an instance of a rabid dog biting people. The cadre members there called a meeting to look into the matter and, after one whole day, they could not come to a conclusion, and the dog was still there biting the people. 

    The two Members of the Opposition do not understand the feelings of the people living in HDB flats. They have never stayed in an HDB flat. Of course, they have not stayed in an attap house. Nevertheless, they are making a lot of noise here. What is their intention? Their intention is to gain some political capital. Just now the Member for Potong Pasir attacked the speeches made earlier by my colleagues, the Member for Paya Lebar and the Member for Kaki Bukit, relating their personal experiences of how they struggled and gradually upgraded from living in a crowded 1-room flat to a 3-room and to a 5-room flat. The Member for Potong Pasir described this as a cheap tear-raising episode of a Chinese TV serial. I think this remark is a great insult to all those people who live in HDB flats. I feel he should make a public apology to all of them. 

 ment moved by the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  Mr Speaker: We have taken a long time, so let us come to the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. 

  hoiyung: The amendment of the Member for Anson has fallen. The Question now before the House is the motion moved by the Member for Chong Boon. 

  Mr Eric Cheong Yuen Chee (Toa Payoh): May I ask the Hon. Acting Minister for Labour whether this scheme, as proposed by him, will effectively demolish the false argument put forward by the Member for Potong Pasir that the CPF Board does not have sufficient funds to pay its members? 

    As I have explained before in this House, the Government has carefully invested the CPF savings in sound investments. I do not know whether the Member for Potong Pasir is able to read accounts or he is 

  hoiyung: Sir, could the Member for Anson quote the point of order from the Standing Orders? 

  hoiyung: When I choose examples, I choose external examples. I did not say who they were. I did not mention names. I did not mention MPs. I said, "we", which could mean any one of us here. Unless the Member for Anson is in the business of mind reading and he could read my mind as to what I am imputing, then I suggest he withdraw his objections. 

  Mr Sia Khoon Seong (Moulmein): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson in his statement was trying to imply that the PAP MPs did not stand up on principles and, because of Party directives, compromised their scruples and allowed themselves to go against their conscience and just voted for the Party's directives. If I understood him correctly, this was what he meant. I think this is the most insulting thing that he has said of the PAP MPs. If he were to refer to the proceedings of this House in the last 10 or 15 years, and if he is honest in his assessment, he will notice that PAP MPs have stood up in this House to challenge Ministers' statements and Government policies on several occasions. They had not flinched when the moments came. But, of course, there were also moments in which they believed in what the Government was 

    I think the point behind the motion of the Member for Siglap is this. Let me be very specific so that the Member for Anson cannot say that we are trying to dodge. 

    The figure for 1981 differs from that of 22 stated in a Written Answer to the Member for Anson on 31 Aug 82. The earlier figure was confined to National Servicemen. Also it covered only those cases where the degree of disablement had been settled by 31 Aug 82. Injuries take some time to stabilise before a final determination of degree of disablement may be made. 

    The information requested by the Member for Potong Pasir on the number of mortgage loans in arrears before 1978 and the breakdown by loan amount are not available as the HDB does not keep these statistics. To extract these statistics from past records would cost the HDB not less than $200,000 in terms of manpower and computer costs. 

    While we are on this subject, I will discuss the question raised by the Member for Potong Pasir on what were the objections raised by the stockbrokers when the draft Bill was introduced. The main objections related to the need to make disclosures to the MAS, for right of the MAS to appoint members to the Stock Exchange Committee, the right of MAS to amend the rules of the Stock Exchange and power of the MAS to issue directives. All these were seen to undermine the concept of self-regulation and would take away the autonomy of the Exchange to make its own rules, a right which was jealously guarded. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has said that there is no provision for appeal beyond the Minister in the licensing of stockbrokers. The answer is that there is 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I believe members of the public will welcome this Bill as it enables them to invest their CPF funds more flexibly contrary to what the Member for Potong Pasir has said and, to reiterate the point made by the Member for Jalan Kayu, there is nothing in this Bill that forces any CPF member to invest any of their funds in gold or securities or non-residential property. Sir, the point made by the Member for Potong Pasir is completely wrong. 

    Turning now to the points made by the Member for Potong Pasir who felt obliged to say something, I suppose, on this subject. His first point about rationale has already been explained several times and there is no need for me to repeat. I think Members have already answered him. It is purely an optional scheme. Nobody is telling anybody to invest. We are not trying to stimulate the market. I have said so before and I say it again now. If members want to put their money with the CPF Board, I will be most happy. 

    To my surprise, the Member for Potong Pasir has now decided to talk about CPF for education. He has kept silent all this while when the Member for Jalan Kayu and others were passionately asking for the scheme to be introduced. Now that the other Members have realized the logic and the sense of what the CPF committee is trying to do, ie, to reduce therates so that people can have more savings and decide what they want to do with their own savings, he now comes out and tries to champion this issue. As I have explained before, there is really no need, in the case of tertiary education in Singapore, the NUS, Polytechnic and so on, to touch the parents' CPF savings because the fees are so highly subsidized. In the case of the NUS, the fees are only about $1,200 per year and most people can afford that. Even if they cannot afford, education is so important that the Government must make it possible for everybody who can qualify to get a place. No one will be barred because of financial circumstances. So for local education, there is no need to touch the CPF. 

    Sir, when he moved his amendment to this motion, the Member for Potong Pasir pointed out that the Hendrickson incident had not hurt Singapore. Have I heard you correctly? 

    But what continues to bother me is not the foreign interference but the wilful misinterpretation of the incident by people who are out to discredit the Government. For example, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has questioned and cast doubts on the statutory declaration made by Mr Patrick Seong. But as the Prime Minister has said to him last Friday, Mr Seong is now a free man and he is free to go and ask him personally the truth of the statutory declaration. He has also claimed that the PAP is using this debate to divert attention away from its problems. Nothing, Sir, can be further from the truth. The PAP is not facing any problem. In my 

    There are also those who would have the public believe that the Government is using this incident to systematically remove potential Opposition candidates from standing for election. Again, Sir, this is an unbelievable assertion. For we know, unlike the past, we now have a better educated and more discerning public. Opposition members or any aspiring politician must not only be outspoken and intelligent but they must have the moral integrity to command the confidence of the people. Expectations and standards are high today and those with severe flaws in character cannot hope to be successful. In fact, the Government is protecting the public interests by exposing these persons. We do not want the wrong person to come into this House. On the other hand, we encourage sincere and upright citizens to come in even if it means forming an Opposition to do so. After all, that was how the Member for Potong Pasir made it into this Parliament. So here there is no real issue. 

  hoiyung: Sir, I think the point here is whether the Member for Potong Pasir accepts the truth in the statutory declarations of these detainees. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, do you want to give way? 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, are you going to read the whole book? 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, the Member for Potong Pasir today raised many issues with very impressive arguments. First, he said the PAP Government has no compassion, no feelings, no consideration, no regard for the pain suffered by the families of the eight people detained under the Marxist conspiracy. But does he not realize that we have to balance the happiness of the eight detainees against the 2(r) million people of Singapore who have a right to security in a stable country. 8 against 2(r) million - what kind of logic is that? 

    Secondly, he asked that we meet and speak to the family members of the eight detainees. I think the family members of the eight detainees are still fully entitled to meet their Members of Parliament to complain about their plight and I am sure their grievances would be brought to the fore. The Member for Potong Pasir himself is not prevented from speaking to them and from raising their problems. But if the Member for Potong Pasir thinks that, by 

    He also said that it is illogical that the Americans would want to topple the Government of Singapore. I think if we heard the arguments of the Member last Friday, he said something like this: The more relaxed, the more open the situation in Singapore, the more democracy there is, the more voices against the government, the more investments will flow in. And today he said that it is illogical that the Americans would want to interfere in Singapore's affairs because he said that America is a capitalist nation whereas the eight detainees have been called Marxists. I think the Member for Potong Pasir has been too simplistic. And he quoted from the dictionary to say that Marxism has such a wide definition. He was reading at such a lumbering pace that it was commented upon by the Deputy Speaker. I would like to ask if he really understands it. If he does not, there is a course in the Political Science Department of the National University of Signapore and the Professor in the Political Science Department can give a free lecture on the topic: "Classical Political Theories" on Marxism, Communism, Capitalism, all of them, could be taught free of charge. We need to have Members who know what they are saying and not confuse the people through the mass media, and that is what the Member for Potong Pasir has been doing. He said - and I want to show how simplistic his thinking is - he said that it is totally illogical that Vincent Cheng, someone who, I quote, "wants to become a priest" could be a Marxist or pro-Marxist. That is illogical, he said. I propose that he studies the development of liberation theology in the Philippines and study how not only have the churches been infiltrated by the Marxists but even the priests themselves 

    Earlier, the Member for Potong Pasir made a sweeping accusation of my colleague, the Member for Telok Blangah, by saying that he is an unfeeling person. Does he know that the Member for Telok Blangah is actually a doctor and, therefore, he has a lot of feelings for people and care for people? 

    Francis Seow is a lawyer, an experienced one at that. So I would suggest that the very next notion in his mind, following the first one to get into politics, must be how to resolve his indebtedness. So quite unlike the Member for Potong Pasir who saw no need to seek asylum when he entered politics as an opposition member, Francis Seow first sought the assurance of 

    No credible Opposition in Parliament? Sir, what is the Member for Potong Pasir doing here in Parliament? 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: In fact, Mr Hendrickson's deliberate exercise is an insult to the Member for Potong Pasir who has in his own ways contributed to the business of government. 

    Sir, at this juncture, I would like to persuade the Member for Potong Pasir to join Singaporeans and register to all foreign powers that they should not in future interfere in Singapore's domestic political affairs. And he can easily do this by supporting the motion of the Member for Braddell Heights. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir is a valid Opposition Member in Parliament. He is here because of the wishes of the people of Potong Pasir, not because of any foreign power. Is Mr Hendrickson saying that the people in Potong Pasir are wrong in electing him? Then what about the PAP? Those of us in the PAP who are here are here because of the wishes of the majority of the people in the constituencies we represent. Again, is Mr Hendrickson saying we are wrong? 

  Mr Eugene Yap Giau Cheng: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, before lunch I was making a point that Singapore's political development must be left on its own to evolve and it ought not to imitate the gun-slinging trigger-happy Texan cowboy of the Wild, Wild West. Sir, unlike many other countries in the world, Parliament in Singapore must be a place where people's problems are discussed seriously with both Government and Backbenchers. None of us should become a marionette to any foreign power, lest decisions be taken that cannot serve the general interest of all Singaporeans. IfSingaporeans feel that the Member for Potong Pasir is inadequate, or for that matter any one of us, it is up to Singaporeans to decide who they want in Parliament. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir. I was actually limiting my discussion to Mr Hendrickson. My point is that Mr Hendrickson carried out some surreptitious meetings with Mr Francis Seow and some other lawyers and encouraged them to stand for election, take the Government on. I said that Mr Hendrickson has so far not denied these things. That is one. The other point is that I was actually discussing about Mr Hendrickson, as I said earlier on. I was not discussing about detainees and so on. My point is that there was a point made by Mr Hendrickson that there is no credible Opposition in Parliament. Then I said, "What? No credible Opposition? What is the Member for Potong Pasir doing here in this Chamber?" In fact, I was giving him an opportunity to say something against what Mr Hendrickson has done. I wonder 

  The Minister for Home Affairs (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, in speaking in support of the motion I would like to divide my remarks into two parts. First, by responding to some of the points made by the Member for Potong Pasir this morning and, secondly, to comment on the remarks made by several Members about the role of the foreign press in this whole affair. 

    Sir, if I may touch on some of the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir just now. I would suggest to him and to other Members of the House: let us leave it to Mr Hendrickson and other officials to speak for themselves. I think Americans need not need either the Member for Potong Pasir or anybody else to speak on their behalf. If indeed some Foreign Service rules of the United States prevent Mr Hendrickson from denying it, then their spokesman here, Mr Richard Gong, could in his statement have said that "Mr Hendrickson says that he has denied whatever was alleged by Mr Patrick Seong or Mr Francis Seow". But no such words appeared in any of their official pronouncements. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir in his remarks this morning made a statement which I found very surprising because he is not prone to making wild allegations or mischievous statements. But this morning, referring to the Prime Minister's statement, he said that the Prime Minister is now saying that Catholics are Marxists. I think this is very dangerous and a very sweeping and mischievous statement. I hope the Member did not intend it to be so and I hope that he will withdraw it because neither the Prime Minister nor any other Minister in Government has ever said that. In fact, we have always made it a point to repeat that of the 22 persons who were arrested, only four were Catholics. And further, in all our contacts with the Church, with the Archbishop, the representatives of the Vatican, we have had two things uppermost in our minds. The first is to stress that these actions are not in any way directed against the church and the Archbishop himself said he was satisfied. 

    These are large meetings in large stadiums. There is no restriction but it does not mean that because they have the freedom to conduct political activities that there are no rules or regulations to observe. Of course, there are rules and regulations and procedures to be observed laid down by the police. For what reasons? To ensure that there will not be disorder, to ensure that there will be no traffic congestion, to ensure that no lawless elements can manipulate the situation. These are procedures which not only Opposition parties have to observe but all political parties, including Members of Parliament from the ruling party. And, in particular, we are strict on processions because they have a propensity to get out of hand. And the Member for Potong Pasir is probably very upset because he recently conducted a foot procession with banners, flags, without a police permit, and after advice from the Attorney-General the police had to give him a written warning. But as Members from the PAP also know, they have also not succeeded when they have applied for permission to have processions. So it is not just rules and regulations designed to curb Opposition political parties but they apply to all political activities. 

    Then the Member for Potong Pasir says we do not have to worry about the CPM. They are no threat at all. Is that so? The CPM today still remains committed to the violent overthrow of both the governments of Singapore and Malaysia. There are still armed communist guerillas active in the Malaysian jungles. As the press reported in Malaysia in July 1987, last year Malaysian security forces uncovered 24 communist food dumps and killed 165 guerillas in combat, and the Malaysian White Paper only this year stated that the CPM was exploiting different groups for their own purposes and the CPM underground still exists in Singapore. So we cannot say that there is no threat. 

    Finally, Sir, in answer to the point made by the Member for Leng Kee, the Member for Potong Pasir stood up to say that it is not true that under our laws, if an arrested person is silent, it will be held against him. I think this is a gross distortion and over-simplification which it is necessary for me to set the record straight. What does our law say? What our law says, Sir, is that in court proceedings if the accused, after being called upon to give evidence, refuses to be sworn or affirmed, in other words, he refuses to give evidence on oath or affirmation --- 

    'In recent years we've seen one of the two opposition members ... forced to resign after investigation into the finances of his Workers' Party.' 

    After watching Francis Seow on television, Hendrickson decided that this was a leader who could take on the Prime Minister, defy him and, perhaps, demolish him. He never understood why Patrick Seong, a Singaporean, was reluctant to associate himself with Francis Seow. Suppose Francis Seow gets into Parliament. Other scallywags and charlatans follow him or accompany him into Parliament. The integrity of Parliament becomes suspect. Politicians, you, I, the Member for Potong Pasir, get discredited. Moral respect for those who govern is lost. Where is the moral authority to govern? 

    As I have informed the Member for Anson this morning, total of 23 persons have been debarred from applying for HDB flats because they have committed the offence of harbouring illegal immigrants. Just imagine, Members in this House, that in Singapore we have hundreds, if not thousands, of illegal immigrants. HDB is housing 85% of our population. So by just a mathematical proportion, 85% of the illegal immigrants could have been harboured by HDB residents. And there may be some who are harbouring more, outside the HDB estates. But I am saying that just to illustrate that, using statistics, 85% of the illegal immigrants could have been housed in HDB estates. So if HDB really is taking very severe action to evict the people so as to punish them, then I think hundreds, if not thousands, of HDB residents would be debarred from applying for HDB flats. But, in fact, there are altogether only 23 persons out of 2.2 million people housed in HDB flats who have been debarred. So it goes to show how careful HDB officers are in taking action against residents who are harbouring illegal immigrants and how seriously we take the issue of acquisition of flats from people who harbour illegal immigrants. In fact, we consider this is very serious offence. And even then, for those families who harboured illegal immigrants and had their flat compulsorily acquired by HDB, HDB usually offers them alternative rental accommodation. HDB is not in the habit of throwing people out into the streets. In fact, most Members of Parliament have HDB estates in their constituencies and they will know when their constituents are harbouring illegal immigrants and have been thrown out by HDB into the streets. I think when they look around and check the answer is zero - nobody. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: No, we must have this law to prevent people from harbouring illegal immigrants. I will explain why we need to have a stiff law against people who are harbouring illegal immigrants. When a person is an illegal immigrant, he cannot be employed anywhere. Then how is he going to earn a living? He can earn a living by robbing children in the void decks, by robbing or snatching jewellery from women in the lifts in housing estates, or by breaking into people's home to steal. I am quite sure the Member for Rochore reads the Chinese newspapers, he will know that a lot of countries, perhaps not too far from Singapore, are having problems with illegal immigrants. Their citizens have been found murdered by illegal immigrants, their women have been raped by illegal immigrants, their houses have been broken into by armed illegal immigrants. Do we like these things to happen in Singapore? Yes, perhaps the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir would like to see these things happen because they have a vested interest to see that when turmoil descends on Singapore, then --- 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, the same thing applies to shops. I think the shops are also on a monthly tenancy, where HDB can also cancel the tenancy agreement with a month's notice and then have a fresh agreement drawn up and with a new clause incorporated. Of course, the tenant has the right not to accept the new clause. In other words, if the notice of a new tenancy is served and the tenant finds the new tenancy unacceptable, he does not have to accept it. He can cancel it. He can say, "No, I am not prepared to sign." So the tenancy will be terminated. This clause is for easy administrative work. I am afraid the Member for Anson has also got it wrong, thinking that HDB is trying to impose the new fees, this and that, and so on and so forth, and, in fact, he has filed an amendment. That is all wrong. This clause is purely for easy administrative work. HDB has already the power to do it, simply by terminating the tenancy and provide a fresh tenancy with the new conditions, 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, I now come to the Member for Anson's point. The Member for Anson talks about clause 3. This morning he was insinuating that if HDB's interest rate were to increase, HDB would do it very fast. So the people would have to pay a higher rate of interest straightaway. If there was a deduction of interest rate, HDB would do it very slowly so that everybody would pay the higher interest rate for a long time. But the fact is just the opposite. Recently HDB has on two occasions made deductions of the interest. In accordance with the lease agreement, if there is a change in interest rate, HDB has to give three months' notice, in other words, the lessee has to pay the old rate of interest for three months, that means they pay more. But HDB has, in fact, taken action on its own by informing the tenants that, in spite of the fact that in the lease agreement there is a period of three months' notice, the HDB is waiving this three months' notice and is giving you an immediate reduction of interest straightaway. So the purchasers of the HDB flats - offhand, I would say there are nearly 200,000 flat owners - have benefitted by the action of HDB to lower the interest rate, and with just one month's notice. 

    On clause 4, the Member for Anson mentioned that the HDB is going to 

  hoiyung: All right, the late payment of rental arrears. The HDB informed me that up to the end of the last quarter, the outstanding rental arrears and instalments is about $66 million. In other words, the tenants or the lessees owe HDB $66 million. The HDB incurs a lot of administrative expenditure in trying to chase up the rentals, serving them with notices and so on and so forth. The Member for Anson mentioned that, in the private sector where there is a rental agreement, those who are in rental arrears have to pay interest. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, the law here is to allow the HDB to compulsorily acquire the flat and not the forfeiture of the flat. In fact, the Member for Anson and subsequently joined by the Member for Potong Pasir are either ignorant or are intentionally trying to mislead the people. They say that the HDB is going to forfeit the flat, presenting a picture that HDB is going to take their flat and pay them nothing. 

  hoiyung: Yes. If you did not say it, then I am sorry . But I distinctly heard your colleague, the Member for Potong Pasir, say it. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, on rental arrears, I have clarified. Clause 5, on the powers of the Board, I have also clarified already. On Clause 7, cancellation of applications, the Member for Anson this morning, mentioned that cancellation of application, is illegal and unconstitutional. 

 That is what he said this morning, if I heard him correctly. Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not think so. Whatever HDB does is strictly according to the law; it is totally constitutional and totally legal. If the Member for Anson believes --- 

    The Member for Anson has also mentioned that he has heard from a friend from Sweden or somewhere saying that there is no HDB flat owner sitting on the Board of the HDB. For the information of the Member for Anson, at present the Housing Board has five Board members. Three out of the five Board members are Members of Parliament whose constituencies comprise HDB estates. These MPs 

    On the point raised by the Member for Potong Pasir about the forfeiture of flats, I have already explained that. 

    Another point brought up by the Member for Potong Pasir is that the legal work for the purchase of HDB flats should not be undertaken by the legal officers of the HDB. He is suggesting that this work should be given to the private lawyer firms. What I want to explain is this. HDB is selling a large number of flats mainly to the middle and lower income groups. These middle and lower income groups have requested the HDB for assistance in legal service and to charge them at a very small nominal fee. HDB accedes to the request of these people by doing the legal work for them and charge them very small fee. Just take an example. Assuming a 4-room flat costs $80,000. HDB is charging a legal fee of only $91, a very nominal sum. If this person goes to a private legal firm outside, he has to pay a legal fee of $356, in other words, 3(r) times more. Therefore, HDB is doing this service at cost, and sometimes below cost. But I want to say that those people who want outside legal firms to undertake their conveyancing work, HDB will allow them. HDB will not stop anyone from employing outside lawyers. If at all, HDB welcomes outside lawyers. The Member for Potong Pasir can pass the word around saying that such and such a lawyer firm is charging lower than the HDB, and I think he will get a lot of business. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, if the Member for Potong Pasir can talk to his own Law Society to reduce the fee, acceptable to the HDB lessee, I will be quite happy to ask HDB to allow the Law Society members to do the work. This is a free market. If you charge a lower fee, I am quite sure you will have plenty of business. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not understand the agitation of the Member for Potong Pasir. I made no mention of anybody. 

  The Chairman: The hon. Member for Anson has given notice of an amendment to clause 5. The notice of amendment was received at about 10.30 this morning. Standing Order 71(3)(a) provides that: 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I started off by reading the relevant section of the relevant Act. I shall read it again for the Member for Anson. It says: 

    As for his trade union service, for which I express great admiration, the Member for Anson may have different views. Whether the trade union movement proposes to pay a pension to Mr Nair is not my concern. That is entirely up to them. 

    The Member for Anson has tried to pull the wool over workers' eyes by dangling the prospect of higher take-home pay if the workers' contributions to CPF is correspondingly reduced to match a reduction in employers' contribution. "e tries to hide the fact that such a measure is a reduction of workers' wages. 

 flats. He has realized that a reduction in CPF contributions will cause hardship to many workers who will have to make up for the CPF cash shortfall from their take-home pay. So he has called for a reduction in HDB financing interest rates. What this means is that he is calling for a reduction in the CPF interest rate. Public housing is financed by loans from CPF. You cannot lower the interest rate on housing loans for HDB flats without affecting the interest payable to CPF account holders. So let all Singaporeans be aware that the Member for Anson is now calling for a cut in the CPF interest rate. 

  Mr S. Chandra Das (Chong Boon): Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to ask this House to reject the amendment moved by the Member for Anson. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, in introducing this amendment, mourns about the delay and inadequacies of measures taken so far by the Government. When asked what he would do to solve Singapore's economic problems, he was reported to have said that Singapore businessmen must be given more scope. There should be a customs union with our neighbours and more transfer of technology. This great economic solution was reported in the Straits Times of 27th July 1985. 

    Let me first take on the question of customs union. Obviously, when the Member for Anson talks about customs union, I think he does not understand or fails to understand that we will have basically to compromise our free trade philosophy. Does he not realize that under a customs union we will have to raise tariff walls? For the information of the Member for Anson, let me explain the various possible forms of economic groupings starting from free trade area, customs union, common market and economic union. It will be advisable for him to understand the concepts and implications before making bold statements about having a customs union. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, another criticism levelled by the Member for Anson is that all the incentives and assistance are only given to the businessmen and that nothing is given to the workers. This allegation, l am afraid, must be debunked because, Sir, cost reductions through the various fiscal measures would further ensure the viability of our business enterprises, especially the small and medium-sized local companies. Viable companies mean jobs and no retrenchment for our workers. The alternative would be to increase the burden on our businesses until they collapse. The result: joblessness, social misery and political instability, All these are well known to the Member for Anson. A viable and strong corporate and business sector must mean more and more and better paying jobs. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, finally, let me remind the Member for Anson that the tough times should help to breed tough people. But unfortunately tough times also breed false prophets. History fortunately has shown that false prophets also get flushed out in economic cycles. After all, a circus clown will fail to tickle his audience with the same trick over and over again. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I rise to join the Member for Chong Boon in urging this House to dispose of the amendment proposed by the Member for Anson. The Member for Anson is highly predictable. As soon as economic trouble appeared, he hurries to this House to allege delays and inadequate effort on the part of the Government in dealing with the problem. He promptly placed the blame for the economic difficulties on the Government, hoping to speed up his political progress in the course of doing so. 

  hoiyung: Sir, this Government has led Singapore for the past 26 years to widely acclaimed heights of economic progress and success. It has created an economic structure which gives us prosperity, stability and security. The people have enjoyed two decades of social and economic growth. The development of housing for the people has gone on at a rapid pace resulting in the problem of housing being thoroughly licked. Today, nearly 80% of the people live in comfortable and, I must emphasize, Sir, affordable housing. This is an achievement which no amount of side-tracking by the Member for Anson can cover up or ignore. 

    In view of the present economic difficulties, the Member for Anson has asked: do we have to wait till panic station to react? But, Sir, we are far from a panic station. A 

    The Member for Anson tries, in his usual manner, to damage the good bond between workers, employers and the Government by alleging that the Government is blaming the workers for this downturn. This is far from the truth. The Government is well aware of the workers' sacrifices in joining the wage restraint policy. It is a policy of reacting to the realities of the market place. If our wages are higher than those in Taiwan or Hong Kong, then restraint is necessary to enable us to remain competitive in the world-wide market. 

    The Member for Anson alleged that this Government has been dragging its feet in dealing with economic problems. Is he not aware of the measures which have been put into operation by the Economic Committee? What has he got to add to the list of measures to assist aII sectors of the economy to survive and to overcome present economic difficulty? 

    Both the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir asked, "Why does the PUB not reduce its charges?" The Member for Anson says, "Fuel prices have gone down; why does the PUB not reduce its charges accordingly?" The Minister of State for Trade and Industry answered this question on the 23rd July 1985 in this House. He explained that PUB has to collect enough revenue not only to pay for its fuel and other operating costs, but to allow it to finance development expenditures which are required to meet the growing demand. Where possible, PUB by adopting a quarterly review of its rate has already taken into consideration the fuel cost. The Member for Anson and his erstwhile supporter, the Member for Potong Pasir, have chosen to ignore all these and instead accused the Government of tardiness in attending to the economic situation. 

    Sir, for 26 years, this Government has been solicitously attending and nurturing the nation's economy. The efforts and results are no illusion or lip service as alleged by the Member for Anson. This Government had planned and guided our economy to become a viable contender in the complex and competitive modern global market. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I do not expect the Member for Anson to pay tribute to the economic achievements of this Government. But I do expect Singaporeans to know that the economic well-being of this nation is of paramount concern to this Government. Sir, it is highly irresponsible to charge that this Government has procrastinated in tackling the economic difficulties which we are facing now. 

    The Hon. Prime Minister, in his National Day Rally Speech on the 18th August, gave us a clear and concise exposition of the reasons and sequences of events which led to this present situation. I do not propose to repeat his eloquent speech but strongly urge the Member for Anson to spend more time in a careful study of that speech. 

  hoiyung: Sir, what measures has the Member for Anson proposed to overcome the current problem? What brilliant ideas, what gems of innovation has he brought forth to help the people of Singapore in this situation of economic slow-down? If he has not, is he not the one who has procrastinated? But perhaps he is simply unable to bring forth sound and practical measures. On the 26th July 1985, he spoke to the NUS Guild members (i hope he remembers that). He suggested, Sir, that the problem of a drop in demand for our exports will vanish and mysteriously turn into a bullish trend if we were to form a customs union with our good neighbour, Malaysia. 

  hoiyung: I am just about to tell you what is wrong with that. Sir, I am just as amazed as my colleague, the Member for Chong Boon, at this ludicrous suggestion. Does he understand fully the implications of his words? Sir, I must believe that he spoke without fully understanding what he meant, without realizing the implications of his own suggestions. As the Member for Chong Boon has pointed out, is the Member for Anson suggesting that we give up our free trade with the rest of the world to form a customs union with Malaysia? We have done away with tariff. We have done away with taxes. 

  hoiyung: We have built up a trading network based on the concept of free trade. The result - a steady growth in our trade and commerce. Can we in all seriousness accept the Member for Anson's proposal to impose customs duty and tariffs? Should we do away with the gains that free trade has brought us? Is the Member for Anson suggesting that we should form a customs union and, as a result, Malaysia would do away with their customs duties and their taxes and join us 

 in our free trade policy? Is the Member for Anson suggesting, on the other hand, that perhaps we could adopt the structure of tax and tariffs that are in place in Malaysia today? Mr Speaker, Sir, we do not need further examination to confidently dispose of such a suggestion. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has also proposed that we cut the CPF rate to 40%. He thinks that would solve all our problems. He knows full well that cutting CPF would in effect be reducing our workers' pay. If the result of cuffing CPF is insufficient savings, insufficient funds on the part of the workers, to finance or to pay their mortgages on their houses, no problem. The Member for Anson has another equally ludicrous solution. He proposes that we then cut interest rate on housing loans to 4 1/2%. 

  hoiyung: 4%. He is even going 1/2% better, 4%, Sir. Interest rate on housing loan is now 6 1/4%. Sir, as the Member for Kebun Baru has pointed out, loan interest rate is intimately tied to interest paid on CPF deposits which is 6 1/2% now. Is the Member for Anson actually suggesting that the HDB hand out another subsidy on the financing for the homes that are sold to Singaporeans? Is he suggesting that a cash subsidy be handed out to help them to further finance these mortgages? Or is he subtly suggesting that the CPF interest rate be reduced to 41/2%? 

  hoiyung: Let CPF members be aware of what he is subtly proposing. Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson seems to be particularly confused at this juncture. Allow me a minute to explain to him. He is proposing that the interest rate paid for the mortgage on HDB apartments be reduced to 4%. How is that going to be possible without an equivalent reduction in the interest rate paid to CPF account holders in order to balance up? Somebody will have to pay for that interest rate. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has gone so far as to suggest that cutting CPF will encourage everybody to spend more. And it seems his mission in life is to get everybody to spend more. Where is the money going to come from? That is far from his consideration. In his view, if the people have more money in their pockets and they will spend more, then our economy will be richer. He proposes that we cut CPF to stimulate demands. Demands for what, may I ask? Demands for more houses, demands for bigger, safer savings for future needs? Or is he suggesting more demand for Sony television, portable radios, video-recorders and cameras? 

  hoiyung: Are our people really better off in following the Member for Anson's suggestion? Can we stimulate enough domestic demand to keep our petroleum refineries working to prevent retrenchments? Can we stimulate enough domestic demand by cutting CPF to make sure that our shipyards will be able to work at its full capacity? Can we stimulate enough domestic demand to ensure that all the electronic factories will be able to hum away 24 hours a day on three shifts? Sir, the solution is not just to stimulate demand. We must strive to increase our competitiveness in order to sell our products to the world market. 

    Although the Member for Anson agrees that it is necessary to maintain a strong saving rate, he questioned the need to continue building up our national reserves. Is he suggesting that we are now in the happy position to "retire" in a manner of speech and to live off our national reserves? How long does he think our national reserves will last in that event? This is the first time that a Member has suggested that the national reserves be used for this purpose. It is precisely for this reason that the Government is considering moves to instal a second lock on the reserves to prevent irresponsible Members from raiding the bank. Without sustained efforts to maintain the reserves, we will lack the hard cash that is needed in 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has displayed total neglect and ignorance in touching on the economic problems that are facing us. He is not at all aware of the fundamental role of government in fostering economic growth and development. He is quite unaware of how Government finance its expenditure and he has not at all been lucid in pointing out how buying more imports will result in us getting richer. 

    The Member for Anson at his recent Party National Day rally made a public call, as we have heard from previous speakers, to cut the CPF rate by 10% and the interest on HDB housing loan from 6 1/4% to 4%. And he claimed as usual that he was proposing this in the interest of the ordinary workers. Even if for one moment I do not doubt his good intention, the Members for Leng Kee and Kebun Baru have already shown that these simplistic remedies are unlikely to stimulate the economy and if implemented may actually harm the interests of the ordinary workers. So is he really serious in wanting to champion the cause of the workers? Or is he not trying to mislead the workers into thinking that by cuffing the CPF rate, they will become better off because there is an increase in take-home pay, But you and I know they would be the poorer for it because their actual income would drop. 

    So far what we have heard from the Members for Anson and Potong Pasir has been but a very simplistic view of our present economic problems. They have no concrete suggestions to really help the economy. The Member for Anson has called not only for a cut in CPF, but, as the Member for Jalan Besar has stated, also implied that we should use our national reserves to stimulate the economy. In other words, we should spend our way out of this recession. But given no restraints, our worker's CPF savings and our national reserves will run dry in no time. This, Sir, is a very shallow, very irresponsible and dangerous approach. And it is precisely because of this easy temptation to dig into the till when times are bad, that the Government - 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has actually suggested a cut of 10% in CPF and a cut in HDB housing loan rate from 6 1/4% to 4%, without at the same time having an equivalent cut in the CPF interest rate. So the money must come from a grant of the Government. It must ultimately come from the national reserve. 

  Mr Chng Hee Kok (Radin Mas): Mr Speaker,Sir,I rise in support of the motion moved by the Member for Leng Kee. The moves by our trade unions to place group interest over self interest and the rapid response of the Government to correct some of our economic problems has impressed even our most ardent critic, despite what the Member for Anson has said. This shows that Singaporeans, on the bright side, are standing up as a nation. Despite economic difficulties, Singaporeans are placing nation before self. As a nation, we are coming of age, and I am confident that in a crisis, Singaporeans will march forward as one. These are heart warming signs. 

    If I take the comment on high-tech made by the Member for Potong Pasir. He said that high-tech implies that we must have more graduates and more specialists and therefore more universities. I do not believe that this is the cause of our problems at this time. In fact, it is likely that high-tech will result in rather limited employment and even then, only among the highly skilled and the younger workforce. It is worthwhile for us to pursue a low-tech strategy at the same time. We have spent time and money on retraining, but this is of course a protracted process. As long as we accept that certain segments of our workforce will be paid lower salaries, and jobs are better than no jobs, this is a good intermediate strategy for the next few years. Low-tech high-value-added areas are suitable for the majority of our local industrialists, Of course, they must upgrade. They must go for low-cost automation. They must improve through office automation, but it is not likely that they can go into high-tech at this point of time. 

  Mr Eric Cheong Yuen Chee (Toa Payoh): Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has, amongst many things, suggested that, in order to stimulate the economy, there should be a reduction in the contributions to the CPF, including the employer's contribution. May I ask why he has not declared his pecuniary interest on the matter? Sir, this is not the first time that the Member has not declared his pecuniary interest on the matter, and I believe he is an employer in his own right. I would like to know how much he would benefit arising out of a reduction of CPF contributions on the employer's part. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I ought to respond to some of the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir. Listening to his speech, I had the very uncomfortable feeling that he had, in fact, taken heed of the advice of Dr Lee Boon Yang to listen to the Prime 

    First, wages. The Member for Potong Pasir very accurately pointed out that our wage levels are set by the levels in Hong Kong, in Taiwan, in South Korea. This is precisely the comparison which is relevant and germane and, unfortunately, very uncomfortable for the Member for Anson, who had not long ago told us to forget about South Korea and Taiwan and the other countries. But that is precisely our problem. Our wages are twice that of Hong Kong's. Our workers are not twice as productive as the workers of Hong Kong. How do we then justify our wages? How can we be competitive? The Member for Potong Pasir did not suggest any solution, except to cut CPF. May I suggest that our dilemma is profound. Either we can cut wages and become poor, compete for poverty, to see who will be poorer and therefore more competitive, or we can raise productivity and compete in quality, to see whose worker works better, works harder, produces more, functions better as a team. The Government's solution is to raise productivity, and to raise it together. The Opposition's solution is to point at the problem and suggest nonsense words which will wish it away. I do not believe for a moment that the Member for Potong Pasir is wishing that we should become poorer than the workers in Hong Kong. If he says so, then I stand corrected. But so far as I have been able to determine, he is not suggesting that. So what does he suggest? We maintain this position and we get better, or is he suggesting that we fall back and get poorer? I think we should remember, when we talk about costs, that the other side of costs is standard of living. So do not talk about cutting costs in an airy-fairy fashion without realizing that you are at the same time talking about cutting the standard of living of the people. 

 perhaps I should explain what the money is and what the interest rates are. First of all, Small Industries Finance Scheme. That is not $100 million. The Small Industries Finance Scheme is a scheme to lend money to small companies in Singapore who want factories, who want machinery, who want to upgrade themselves, and to lend it at a concession rate. We are not lending $100 million. We have already lent $400 million so far, and the amount is going up. We do not lend at an interest of 7.5%. Yes, prime is 6.5%. We lend at 7.75%. If I were the Member for Potong Pasir, I would have said, 7.75%. But he got his facts wrong. 7.75% is above prime. Prime is now 6.5% in certain banks. But the prime lending rate does not mean that anybody who wishes to can go to the bank and borrow at that rate. If the Member for Potong Pasir showed up at OCBC and asked for a loan at 6.5%, would he get that? When you borrow, you borrow at prime plus 1%, prime plus 2%. That is the rate at which loans are made, depending on the quality of the risk. If you are a good customer, you get a lower rate. If you are a risky customer, you get a higher rate. 7.75% is 1 1/4% above prime. That means about an average customer. Prime has recently dropped. We will look at it. In due course, if necessary, and if the risks are justifiable, SIFS loan interest rates will be brought down. But to suggest that because at 7 3/4%, where prime is 6 1/2%, there is a 1 1/4% margin which is being raked off, is typical of the analysis of interest rates which we have become used to from this Member. 

    Fourthly, JETRO. The Member for Potong Pasir, perhaps after the fashion of 

 the Member for Anson, bandies his words around in an uncomprehending fashion - Customs Union, and now JETRO. He suggests that perhaps we should have a separate statutory board to look after small companies, like JETRO. What is JETRO? [Interruption.] 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, I believe the Member for Potong Pasir in his confused fashion refers to the Trade Development Board, which we have one. Jetro, for the enlightenment of the unenlightened, means the Japan External Trade Relations Organization. It is not the Japan Small Industries Organization. It is not the Japan Family Business Organization, but the External Trade Relations Organization. In other words, how do you export, how do you trade, how do you find new markets and new niches. This is precisely what the Trade Development Board does. That does not help me solve our small business problems. Our small business problem is to help them to upgrade so that they can survive. 

    The next point which was raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, again after the fashion of the Member for Anson, was to stimulate local domestic demand. In other words, he suggested that if we only could spend a bit more money locally, buy things which are made in Singapore, then we would have an economic recovery. It sounds good. But what he must understand is that the reason we survive, and the reason we are able to make a living in this world, is not so much because we sell things to ourselves. It is because we sell 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: I am against the customs union. Are you for it? I understand from the Member for Potong Pasir that he wishes that we impose import duties on clothes, on watches, on consumer goods, on food. That is what the customs union is. 

  The Minister for Finance and Minister for Health (Dr Hu Tsu Tau): Mr Speaker, Sir, can I just have a couple of minutes to correct an impression which the Member for Potong Pasir may have left with the public about the state of Singapore's fiscal affairs? This is in reference to the report by Phillip and Drew, the stockbroking house. I would like to state categorically that the analysis and conclusions are incorrect and they are based essentially on an erroneous interpretation of our fiscal publications. 

 PAP colleagues for their support of the motion. And I will ignore all the petty remarks made by the Member for Potong Pasir about me. I am grateful to the Firs Deputy Prime Minister for his reply, particularly the tax concessions he has just announced. I believe all Members, including the Member for Anson, will support these latest measures taken by the Government. 

    The Minister of State for Community Development and Communications and Information (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Mr Speaker, Sir, I have an amendment to make to the motion standing in the names of the Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir who, unfortunately, after having supported him in the motion, is not in this House to explain. 

    Mr Speaker,Sir, l also note that there is a notice of an amendment to the motion in the name of the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    The Members for Anson and Potong Pasir have said: put 5% more money into workers' pockets. That will stimulate demand. Economics is not an exact science. Nobody can predict consumer behaviour. The talk about customs union was not explained. Even if the two Members are prepared to be misguided themselves, they should not misguide the ordinary man. Even an 'A' level student who studies economics will know that all national issues require an understanding of economics before they can be intelligently resolved. He can get an understanding of this by reading up an economics textbook which is what I would like to recommend to the Member for Anson. You can find this [indicating] in the library. This is the tenth edition. I was told that this is not the latest. They can probably get the latest edition. 

    The two Opposition Members make it sound as if we were back to the Great Depression of the 1930s. Cutting 15% or 25% of an MP's remuneration does not automatically mean that its equivalent amount will be injected into the economy. Incidentally, I do not know why the Member for Potong Pasir has made an amendment to his own motion, something that he signed when he supported the Member for Anson. 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Yes, the Member for Potong Pasir has made an amendment to his own motion but, unfortunately, he is not here to speak on it. Even if it were so, the sum is too paltry to have any effect. Let me read out the amendment made by the Member for Potong Pasir to his original motion when he supported the Member for Anson. He says: 

    To delete the words "one quarter" appearing in the 6th line from the top and substituting therefor the following words, "fifteen per cent". (Signed: Member for Potong Pasir [copied I think, to the Member for Anson) dated 31 August 1985).' 

    Well, both the original motion in the names of the two Members as well as the proposed amendment to the original motion by the Member for Potong Pasir are frivolous propositions, not to be taken seriously. And I smell a rat there, if not two. 

    I am puzzled by the two Members, especially the Member for Potong Pasir. He put his name down to support a motion. Now he amends the motion. What does he want us to believe? Was he thinking at that time? Was he honest to himself? Was he truthful to the Member for Anson? I have no illusions at all about his sincerity and credibility. Now he exposes himself. Why did he shrink from his original motion? Why? Why so niggardly? 

    So let me now ask the Member for Anson: will you join me in contributing half of your MP's allowance and half of your professional fees that you receive to the Community Chest? I will do it. [interruption] No? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have asked the Member for Anson whether he would join me in contributing to the Community Chest half his Member of Parliament's allowance, as well as half his professional fees that he receives, and he did not want to respond. The Member for Anson has claimed that his motion is serious and not in jest. Let us see about that. He said his gesture is symbolic. I call it a trick. I call it a gimmick. I call it a frivolous idea. 

  Mr Rajaratnam: The Member says that people have said that Government had given instructions not to go to Jeyaretnam. Could he please give evidence? 

  Mr Wong Kan Seng: The Member for Anson said that he will announce his intention. Is he going to tell the people that he is going to accept what I have just asked him to do, ie, join me in contributing 50% of his professional fees and MP's allowance to the Community Chest? Why not tell us now? 

  Another hon. Member: Because he wants to consult Mr Chiam. 

  The Minister for Home Affair and Second Minister for Law (Prof. S. Jayakumar): Mr Speaker, Sir, the motion standing in the name of the Member for Anson is a serious motion or it should be taken as a serioUs motion. It is serious to allege that anyone, more so a Member of the Government, has misled. I listened to him carefully and, Mr Speaker, Sir, I will reply to the points that he has raised. But I would like to state at the outset that I categorically deny his allegations and I will show, point by point, that there is no substance whatsoever to his charge. 

 account immigration policy and Immigration status of the child. Immigration status - that is a very important point. The Member for Anson kept emphasizing this point - since it is said in the affidavit that she has no travel documents as her entry was reported to be endorsed in her natural father's passport, there you are, the Minister has misled. But I think all parents do know that when you travel, and if you have a child, you can include that child in your passport. That is what this sentence in the affidavit says: that the child entered Singapore without a separate passport for herself but rather her entry was endorsed on her father's passport. That is all that it says: that she did not have her own travel document but her entry was endorsed on her father's passport. The fact that this was brought to the attention of the court or to the other agencies does not in any way suggest that the girl's presence is illegal. All it says is that she does not have her own passport. 

    What is crucial and what the Member for Anson does not point out is this. Does the affidavit inform the court that the girl has illegally overstayed by several years? Does the affidavit say that the father, having brought the child, went back and deliberately did not renew the child's pass, as is required by the law? Is there a reference to that in the affidavit? Secondly, is there a reference in the affidavit to the fact that the father is, in fact, a work permit holder? And was that point brought to the attention of the court? So the Member for Anson is the party who is misleading us into believing, when he says, that "all the facts were placed before the court." The most important fact here is not that she did not have a travel document of her own but that she had been an illegal overstayer for several years. Nowhere is it stated that the original pass on which she entered had expired a long time ago. 

    Now, the key point to bear in mind is that the legislation never made Immigration policy or the status of the child a key factor for the consideration of the courts. The court is concerned primarily, as I have mentioned before, with the welfare of the child, and this is the gap, Sir, which I referred to when moving the Second Reading of the Adoption of Children (Amendment) Bill, namely, we here in this House pass an amending Bill to make it expressly a relevant factor. So henceforth, all the agencies and the courts would have to direct their minds to the Immigration status. Is the child here lawfully? Illegally? On what pass? Did her parents bring her illegally? Has her visit pass expired? Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson, therefore, is grievously wrong in telling us that the court was made fully aware of the child's illegal status. 

    Incidentally, Mr Speaker, Sir, it is interesting to note that on 14th May, although I said that I did not have the figures, this is what the Member for Anson said: 

    Where in the Hansard can the Member for Anson say that I said this? I quote him again: 

  hoiyung: This is absurd. We have examples. But if the Member for Anson wants my Immigration officials to interview every one with infants in arms, the queue will end up in Johor Baru. The Immigration Department relies on surveys, observations, surveillance. And random surveys by the Immigration Department have led them to estimate that about 1,400 foreign infants under six years of age enter Singapore daily. 3.6% of them are not accompanied by their parents, ie, at least 50 children under six years of age arrive daily unaccompanied by parents. These are very telling statistics. The fact that they were not travelling with their parents at such a tender age would arouse the suspicions of Immigration authorities anywhere in the world, not just in Singapore. Suspicion strengthened by actual cases of adoption of convenience has led to the Immigration Department to take administrative measures, since June 1983 to discourage foreign children on social visit pass or other passes from becoming subjects of adoption of convenience. This condition has been imposed on more than 31,887 foreign children in Singapore. And the condition is: 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has, as I said, a case built up essentially on two limbs. The first limb was that the court and other agencies were fully made aware of all aspects of the case. And as I pointed out, this is not the case. I pointed out that the affidavit did not say that the pass had expired. The affidavit did not point out that the father was a work permit holder who had deliberately not renewed the child's pass and that the child had illegally overstayed. The law at that time did not make Immigration status and policy a relevant consideration. All that the court had to do was to look at the welfare of the child. Was the child physically in Singapore? Yes. 

    The Member for Anson asked, "How many cases? Why don't you have checkpoint statistics for the whole of 1984?" My answer is: even if there was only one case, I would have had to act. If officials in charge of narcotics tell me of one case of a new method of smuggling in drugs, I am not going to ask them to compile one year's statistics. As Home Affairs Minister, I must act. If the Police tell me that they have discovered a new way whereby people bring in smuggled arms whether for Singapore or transhipment elsewhere, am I to wait for one year's statistics? No, I will act. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson's charges are wholly baseless, and I think that it really constitutes an abuse of the process of this House. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, in view of the fact that I cannot deal with all the detailed points raised by the Member for Anson, and to save time, I will ask the Clerk to kindly distribute, with your permission, two lists (Cols. 489 - 494) - a list of communist united front activities in which Chia Thye Poh participated and a list of speeches and statements made by Chia Thye Poh which advocated armed struggle so that Members can make up their own minds, and I will refer to them. 

    Sir, in the 11 minutes that I have I will deal with the main issues raised by the Member for Anson. First, his question as to how long more would we want to detain him. Sir, how long more he will be detained is a decision that is very much also in the hands of Mr Chia Thye Poh. Sir, he knows and he has known it for some time that he will be released if he gives a simple undertaking to renounce the use of force as a means of overthrowing the constitutionally elected government and not to assist the CPM or its related organizations. Renounce the use of force as a means of overthrowing the constitutionally elected government. Or he can also be released if he chooses to go to any country that is prepared to accept him. 

    The Member for Anson talks about natural justice, opportunity to be heard. There is an opportunity provided under the Internal Security Act and he has been asked to avail himself of this opportunity to make representations to the Advisory Board constituted under the Internal Security Act headed by a Judge of the Supreme Court. 

    The Member for Anson, in his closing remarks, said that he was a prisoner of conscience, that he has been detained because he dared to criticize, that he dared to oppose, and he is a prisoner of conscience. 

    Then the Member for Anson asks: why do we not charge him in court? This is a very naive question because he must know the reason why the Internal Security Act provides for preventive detention. The Member knows that there are security cases where it is not possible to get witnesses to come to the court because the CPM will intimidate and liquidate potential 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Anson must know that the basic reason as to why certain kinds of cases cannot be dealt with under the normal process is where the witnesses would not come forth, and evidence under the normal rules will not be available because of this fear of intimidation and threats of assassination and liquidation. The Member for Anson claims that he was told only now of his membership of the CPM. This is not true. The first Order of Detention was based on ample grounds, including his activities in the Communist United Front. Chia's membership of the CPM surfaced in 1968, following disclosures of his membership by his CPM superiors. And Chia was informed. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, as long as the Member for Anson advocates that this person is innocent, my job is to bring all the information here. 

  hoiyung: He was informed in 1968 and in the interviews. Every detainee is interviewed periodically, and he was informed of this, and he knows about it. The Member for Anson must be very careful that he is not taken for a ride. Let 

 me mention: not only was Mr Chia Thye Poh in detention but, as I have said, when in detention between 1974 and 1979 he influenced several warders and used them to send to other detainees folded slips containing transcripts of broadcasts of the CPM radio station. And he also used them to try to get the names of senior ISD Police officers. What is more important now is that the CPM broadcasts repeatedly have shown interest in his case. As recently as March 1985, the Voice of Malayan Democracy, a CPM radio broadcast, referred to his case and expressed keen interest in Chia's detention. The question is: is the Member for Anson fully aware of what he has got himself into - 

    Then, Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson went on to say that Mr Chia Thye Poh has been detained virtually in solitary confinement. Well, Mr Speaker, Sir, I think I can inform the House that Mr Chia Thye Poh is probably one of the most pampered, if not comfortable, of prisoners. He is not in a solitary confinement in some dark cell. He is comfortably housed in a house situated on three acres of land, half of which is occupied by him - 

  hoiyung: I hope the Member for Potong Pasir understands that the school environment has an effect on the language pupils use in school. And in schools with a high concentration of Malay pupils the tendency is for them to speak in Malay. This is a natural thing to do. But if this is allowed to persist in a school, then their English will, in the long run, suffer. 

  hoiyung: You are not allowed to reply, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, where is your supplementary question? 

    I disagree with the Member for Potong Pasir who said that this is just a social problem. Because inhalant abuse is more than a social and health problem as already elaborated by the Minister for Home Affairs. It is also an enforcement problem, judging from the number of detected cases and the number of repeat cases. Inhalant abuse is not a passing fad and I can vouch for this too. Two years ago in my constituency there were no detected cases. But now I have been told that there are 44 such cases. 

  hoiyung: Maybe the Member for Potong Pasir has not been paying too much attention on what has been done by the Ministry of Home Affairs, 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir has said that not enough education has been done. But SANA has been carrying out a prevention programme and many of us in our constituencies have participated in this inhalant abuse prevention programme. Yes, this is indeed a social problem. Parents complain of having to live in constant fear of children who turn abusive, demanding and threatening. They are a constant source of embarrassment to the family. I am told of a case that an abuser even attempted to rape members of his family. Do we need more evidence that this is a serious problem requiring very firm action? Prevention and education are, of course, the best answers. But now we have reached the situation where we need to turn to treatment and rehabilitation. This Bill will empower the Director of the Central Narcotics Bureau on confirmation after a blood test to commit the patient to compulsory treatment and rehabilitation after a second offence. I think this is indeed good for the young person. 

    Finally, may I reply to the Member for Potong Pasir but unfortunately he is not here. I must conclude from all the points that he has raised that he is totally unaware of all the previous statements and reports which my colleague, the Minister of State and I have given to this House and all the reports, including the reports by the Coordinating Committee which have been very well publicized and widely distributed. First, he said that we should not treat the inhalant abuser as a criminal. This is precisely the point that I made and this is precisely the reason why I sought the agreement of this House to the passage of the Constitution (Amendment) Bill. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir must have also seen various TV slots. Just a few examples, Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, to show that all that the Member for Potong Pasir wanted us to think about have been thought about. All that he wanted us to do has been done. In 1985 and 1986, I said that although the Inhalant Abuse Coordinating Committee recommended legislation, while we implemented all the other measures on prevention, education, counselling, we held back the legislation, for more than a year. I said that legislation should be a matter of last resort, and I explained in my speech why we had been slow and cautious in bringing about the legislation. But the Member for Potong Pasir tells us, "Do not legislate." 

    He is not here but I wish he will answer the question on some other occasion or maybe to the press. The question is: how many more deaths does he want to take place? How many more of our young citizens does he want to see perished before we act? I have given an account of our study of other countries. They have thrown their hands up in despair. They are unable to tackle the problem. The Member for Potong Pasir does not give any concrete suggestion except to say that this is a community problem. Indeed it is, and that is why we have tried to involve the whole community in these campaigns and educational programmes. I have yet to see or hear the Member for Potong Pasir give one speech exhorting youngsters to stay away from inhalants and not to be inhalant abusers. I may be wrong but if he had 

 done so, I will be interested to know. [The Member for Potong Pasir entered the Chamber]. He has missed everything else so I might just repeat the tail-end of my conclusion. 

    The question is: how many more deaths does the Member for Potong Pasir want to see occur? How many more young citizens does he want to see perish before we legislate? He has talked about community support. I have given a detailed account of all that was done which has been publicized in the Inhalant Abuse Coordinating Committee's report. He has obviously not read that. But if he sincerely believes that this is a community effort, which we agree with, then I would like to know whether he has ever spoken out at any function exhorting the youngsters to stay away from inhalants and such volatile substances. I have not heard him but if he has, I stand corrected. 

 Singapore labour market. I expressed myself comprehensively on this subject this morning in answer to the question from the Member for Potong Pasir. I have nothing to add to those remarks. 

    Sir, I believe there has been no abuse as before, as was the case in June 1964. We already are a very business-like Parliament, and rightly so. Our sittings are not too frequent, like other Parliaments - the Leader quoted the Lok Sabha - and there is practically little or no waste of time. Even the Member for Potong Pasir, since his entry into this House, I believe, has only spoken for one hour on one occasion. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, you are engaging in tedious repetition. 

    The Member for Chong Boon and the Member for Potong Pasir said that long ago we changed from a no-time limit to one hour and that now we change it to half an hour, and in future it will be much less. Maybe, I am saying this in jest, and with hindsight, we should have changed it to half an hour right from the beginning. Then they could have seen the effect and usefulness of a half-hour debate. 

    I give the Member for Potong Pasir the assurance that when he wants to move a motion which requires the agreement of another Member, we will find someone to support his motion, if he is not objecting to this particular amendment. Even if he is, I will still find one of my colleagues to support him --- 

    Calling for a division, as we see it this morning,is important because it concerns an amendment to the Constitution. But I just took a count of the time spent in taking the division. It took 10 minutes. During that time the whole business of the House came to a standstill, other than calling of names to indicate the "Ayes" and "Noes". Any Member who wishes to dissent on any matter or any Bill can still have his vote recorded in the Official Proceedings and people will still know that he has voted against it. The Member for Potong Pasir must not make the false assumption that when PAP MPs speak against a Bill or a part of the Bill, they will be voting against the Bill. All PAP MPs are in support of the Bills. Sometimes they may disagree with parts of the Bill, but I think all PAP MPs are sensible people. They do not throw the baby out with the bath water. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also cannot compare our system, the British Parliamentary system, with the US Congressional system. They are two different systems. Unless the Whip is lifted in this House, all PAP MPs are expected to vote in favour of the Bill or any matter that the Government puts across. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir can be viewed as raising two questions. One is a specific question as to what do we do with criticisms and protests that we have received on these arrests; and the other is a broader question as to who makes and takes decisions on the law, order and security issues of Singapore - we, the Singaporeans and the elected Government, or foreigners? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir seems surprised that there are protests from various quarters. He should not be. We knew, before we took the decision to arrest those involved in the conspiracy, that there will be criticisms and that there will be protests from abroad. The First Deputy 

    But what about Singapore? Instead of just relying on the Minister's view, let me quote to the Member for Potong Pasir the views of the late Prof. Tilman who was quoted by the Prime Minister. But let me quote a different passage. He has studied and worked here for many years. He was an American scholar and this is what he said: 

    Sir, in the previous debate, when the First Deputy Prime Minister pointed out that the Member for Potong Pasir was not against the ISA, he did not rebut the First Deputy Prime Minister. Congressmen have taken a position which is against preventive detention. I would expect him, as a loyal Singaporean, to speak as a Singaporean. Why does he not take umbrage over what all these foreign critics from Malaysia and elsewhere do which amounts to interference in our internal affairs? Why give more credence to criticisms abroad than the explanations given by the Government? If we take his approach and do what all the foreign critics would ask us to do, will it do any good for Singapore, our future, stability and security? Will it be a responsible act? Will it not encourage more interference from various quarters in our internal affairs? What happens the next time we have another security problem, another Silat group? Do we consult ALIRAN, INSAN, Amnesty International? Ask them first whether they object, whether they protest, and then only act? 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the issue is one of preventive detention. That is how the criticism has been presented. In the ultimate analysis, the key issue is this: who decides the destiny of Singapore and Singaporeans? It must be Singaporeans and the elected Government. Surely the Member for Potong Pasir cannot seriously suggest that our security decisions on arrests and release must be made on criteria other than what is best for our national interest. Surely he cannot suggest that we adopt new criterion depending on whether it pleases or annoys others outside Singapore. If we adopt that criterion, Sir, it will please foreign critics. It will please others elsewhere who want to poke noses into our affairs. But it will not solve our problems and if we take that approach, 

 ie, the approach of the Member for Potong Pasir, it will be abdicating our responsibility to decide our own affairs without interference from outside quarters. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the question from the Member for Potong Pasir is whether we have received the letter from the Congressmen and the answer is yes, and a reply will be prepared. But the reply will be based on the points which have already been covered in the first Congressional letter's reply because that was the comprehensive statement of the Singapore Government's position and many of the signatories to the letter he refers to also included the same signatories to the first Congressional letter. 

 tioned or not is important. There are organizations which have mischievous intent, which derive pleasure from seeing Singapore in difficulties. The Member for Potong Pasir has seen recent examples, in the past year or so, when the slightest incident or event in Singapore sparks off large numbers of protests on matters which do not affect any other country. We must also distinguish critics who have already taken a pre-determined position. Amnesty International takes a pre-determined position - opposing preventive detention. So if we take the approach of the Member for Potong Pasir - we are worried about image and therefore refrain from taking action necessary. Amnesty International also opposes the death penalty. Whenever a drug trafficker is executed, I get letters from Amnesty International. 

    Following the logic of the Member for Potong Pasir, if we take care of this problem of the ISA arrests, what should we do when Amnesty International and legislators the world over who disagree with the death penalty protest? Should we then get rid of the death penalty for drug traffickers? 

  hoiyung: The issue is still that of preventive detention. Law makers who oppose the ISA because they are against preventive detention per se must logically also oppose preventive detention for criminals. It is also detention without trial. The Member for Potong Pasir will come back to this House when next we have protests on that kind of preventive detention and say, "Look, our image is affected. Release all the criminal law detainees." Is he a legislator from another country? Or is he a Member of Parliament of Singapore? So whether it is the Internal Security Act or 

    Our society, despite what the Member for Anson said, has already achieved all the fundamental needs of people everywhere. In some respects, we have done much better than many other countries. We have full employment. Many of our people own their own homes, although not quite enough. We live in a beautiful garden city. We have all the facilities that are required for a comfortable life. 

    In this context, I would like to comment on the belief of the Member for Anson that the people of Singapore reject 25 years of the PAP Government. May I remind him, but he is not in the House now, that up to 1980 this House still consisted wholly of PAP Members. My learned colleague, the Member for Ayer Rajah, has fully explained the reasons for the shift in the voting pattern in the last general election and I will not repeat this. The people of Singapore, I believe, will continue to support this Government, as this is the Government that sees its role as a duty to the people of Singapore. 

    In bringing up this topic of shorter early warning times, I hope that the Member for Anson will consider the views expressed by the Swiss Chief of General Staff. Perhaps this will encourage him to rethink on his philosophy regarding the purchase of the E2Cs Airborne Early Warning Systems. 

 in the context of the President's Speech as well as in the Agenda for Action as referring to Culture, and not as the Member for Anson has twisted it to refer to a different context. It is also so refreshing to hear in the President's Address that "a more vibrant, cultural environment can make living in Singapore more fun." How to encourage culture to flourish? Culture is not simply a revitalization of traditions. Cultural development is not the same as cultural preservation. We need to develop new forms of culture which are reflective of our own times. There must be a new spirit of experimentation (and this would be fun), of self-examination and continuous criticism (which may well bring pain). The society itself must also be more tolerant of new ideas, not only as tried out in art schools, in universities or cultural centres, but also in the open arena. Clearly, our present approach to culture must be re-examined and a more open policy adopted. Incidentally, some questions have been raised not only by just one Member of this House but also by people outside as to why the Ministry of Culture has been abolished. Have we relegated "culture" to the realm of "information" and "communication"? 

    Sir, I submit to you and to this House, firstly, that it is a safe assumption that Government policies have been largely correct over the last 25 years. Otherwise, we would not have witnessed the tremendous achievements that have been recorded. And that, secondly, Government continues to have majority support. If barely 60% is majority support for the Member for Potong Pasir, 62.5% must be a landslide for the PAP. Moreover, that is only for 49 contested seats. For the remaining 30 seats, our Senior Minister, Prime Minister's Office, Mr Rajaratnam, has claimed 100% support. I would not be so optimistic. I would be satisfied with 80%. If we were to work out the average between the two figures, then we are clearly in the region of something like 70%-plus and that is not a bad record. That is not a bad achievement. 

    Sir, undoubtedly, some adjustments have to be made in policies. But I would urge the Government, particularly the younger leaders, not to over-react. Do not, for example, start building chicken coops in the void decks of Potong Pasir. You know, I was three years old during the Japanese Occupation and I remember the distaste of eating tapioca and vegetables. But, Sir, if the hon. Member for Potong Pasir would look at demographic figures of Singapore, he would have realized that at that time Singapore had less than one-third the present population. There was still plenty of land to farm vegetables and tapioca and to raise chickens. Today, I do not think the Member is serious, but if he is, he would have to tear down the flats of Potong Pasir and rebuild the squatter huts to allow his people to rear chickens. And then he would have something like one-twentieth the population, not enough to support the Member for Potong Pasir. Let us not over-react. 

  Dr Augustine Tan: Yes, even hell-riding. We must not succumb to these pressures. I do not agree with the First Deputy Prime Minister when he says, "If the Member for Potong Pasir wants to have illegal parking, illegal hawking, we will let him have it." I say, "No, we don't let him have it." He too must obey the law. The Member for Anson too must obey the law! And the voters in those two constituencies must obey the law! Because the Government is there. It was elected by the majority of the people of Singapore. It was a resounding mandate by any standards, and the purpose and the function of Government is to govern and to govern effectively, to govern honestly and yet to govern with compassion and with fairness. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir also cautioned the Government not to force people to own their own homes. This is an incredible statement from a man who claims to be balanced and constructive. Has he any proof at any time in the past that the Government or the HDB has ever forced anybody into a Housing Board flat and forced ownership papers on him, "You sign on the dotted line or else we put you in jail"? 

  hoiyung: Question 1, addressed to the Prime Minister, will be taken at 2.30 pm. Question 2, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: No. The elected President has got nothing to do with this particular question, Mr Chiam. Please ask your supplementary question on this Question. 

  hoiyung: Let us have your supplementary question, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, we shall see when we hold a by-election whether the Member for Potong Pasir will be there, especially in Anson. 

  BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, much as I am tempted to repeat the answer, let me try another line. It is the Government's responsibility to debate issues, to sell policies, to implement decisions. The Government makes use of all its machinery for this purpose - grassroots organizations, the Feedback Unit, SBC. The subjects which are discussed under the National Agenda are entirely proper subjects which concern every Singaporean and which the Government wants every Singaporean to take an interest in. If there are subjects which are of a purely Party nature, which the Member for Potong Pasir feels have been illegitimately labelled as national issues and which the Government has been improperly using the Government machinery to discuss, I would request him to list them and we can examine them to see whether, in fact, they are illegitimate. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, this is a time for Oral Questions. Could you please ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: I thought he has answered your question. Can you please ask your supplementary question, Mr Chiam? 

  Mr Speaker: Let us have your supplementary question. I do not have to repeat again, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Sir, with regard to the first question from the Member for Potong Pasir, there is no saving of $28 million. The $28 million is required by the University to meet its operating expenses for 1987/88. So the University will not be saving any money. 

  Mr Speaker: Mr Chiam, if you will ask your Question No. 1, the Prime Minister will answer it now. 

 so that there can be no question of any cover-up. However, before we can frame the terms of reference of a public inquiry, will the Member for Potong Pasir please spell out what he means by "the Teh Cheang Wan Affair"? What are the items or matters or instances of corruption or other wrongdoing which he means by "the Teh Cheang Wan Affair"? In other words, what, besides the two cases of corruption the CPIB has against Teh Cheang Wan, does he want to have inquired into? 

A public inquiry into any matter of public interest so that there can be no question of any cover-up. Now, in order to frame the terms of reference of a public inquiry, will the Member for Potong Pasir please spell out what he means by "the Teh Cheang Wan Affair"? You must have terms of reference. If I have a term of reference which says, "public inquiry into the Teh Cheang Wan Affair" - what is it about? The CPIB has two charges against Mr Teh Cheang Wan. The Member for Potong Pasir has included these, I presume, in the word "affair", but he includes much more. Spell it out, and we will include it in the terms of reference. 

  hoiyung: Of course. I am asking the Member for Potong Pasir to spell out what he means by the phrase, "the Teh Cheang Wan Affair", so that we can frame the terms of reference. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir is a barrister-at-law. He passed his Bar examinations. Words mean what they are supposed to mean. There are rules of interpretation. In case he has difficulty in conceiving of these words, may I offer him my written script? There can be no public inquiry without terms of reference. I am asking the Member to spell out his terms of reference. You cannot have terms of reference talking about "the Teh Cheang Wan Affair". You can have that in the coffee shops. But we are asking a Judge to investigate into specific defined areas. Define them. 

  hoiyung: May I suggest that the Member for Potong Pasir puts it down in a form of words. If they can comprise clear-cut terms of reference to a Judge, there will be an inquiry. But let us not wander vaguely over the two charges over $800,000, companies in the Ministry of National Development, tenders. What is the Judge to inquire into? The Member must have some suspicion of wrongdoing. Spell it out. 

    I can assure the Member that I take him very seriously. I take him more seriously than the former Member for Anson because I assume, and I think I have the right to assume, that he is not out on a vague general smear. He has got substantial grounds for believing that there are areas which deserve to be exposed to the public so that there can be no question of any cover-up. I welcome his intervention. But I warn him, or perhaps I should caution him, that I will meet him all the way, every inch of the way. Because this is the way I have run the Government. First, about the two charges of corruption. Why? In my view, he is completely misconceived. When there is wrongdoing of corruption, one does not have an open inquiry which will prejudice, first, evidence being unearthed; second, accused persons being prejudiced. 

  Mr Speaker: I presume you have finished with your questions, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: I accept the proposition. It may sound bizarre. It is absurd. I should, by way of illustration, by way of not being accused of taking advantage of the somewhat patchy knowledge of commissions of inquiry by the Member for Potong Pasir, that terms of reference are drawn with considerable care and precision. If I may read him the terms of reference for the Commission of Inquiry to investigate the allegations made in this House by the former Member for Anson. There were four limbs: 

    (a) to investigate the evidence upon which Mr J B Jeyaretnam based his allegation in Parliament on the 10th day of January, 1986 that the executive arm of Government had on at least three occasions ...; 

    (b) to investigate the evidence upon which Mr J B Jeyaretnam, MP for Anson, based his allegation ...; 

I will accept the Member for Potong Pasir's proposition. He wants this gazetted. I will recommend to the President that this brainwave of the Member for Potong Pasir be gazetted. I will warn him that the first question the Commissioner will ask is: what do the terms of reference mean? And 

    Sir, with regard to the query from the Member for Potong Pasir, as I have said, when a school wants to go independent, the initiative must come from the school itself. So in the case of ACS, not only will the old boys have a say, I would expect them to take the initiative in converting ACS from a Government-aided school to an independent school if they want this. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, may I interrupt you here? This House has been doing this on two previous occasions, even before you were born, I think. I do not see why you should be so troubled by this motion. 

  hoiyung: Since when have you become an expert on Standing Orders, Mr Chiam? 

    The politics of mischief will only breed further mischief. It is mischievous to suggest, as the Member for Potong Pasir did yesterday, that the CPF has no funds to repay. Sir, I said this before in this House and it bears repetition. We live in a country where Government has been very careful in its spending of funds. We have allocated more to development than to recurrent expenditure, and that whatever funds are invested are invested wisely so that it will give us a rate of return in the future. One does not need to be an economist to realize that the large and growing foreign exchange reserves that we have are something to be envied by many countries. These represent the real backing of the CPF. The infrastructure that we have built up represents the backing for the CPF. Perhaps the Government may find it fit one day to reveal what GSIC has been doing, so as to allay the fears that have been generated by irresponsible politicians. 

    Sir, should there be a world depression, we would need to use these reserves to tide us over the two, three or five years that we may have to go through. It is just ridiculous to think that we can tide over a world recession by rearing chickens and by planting a few tapioca trees. If the Member for Potong Pasir has access to an economist with any credibility, he would have been told in no uncertain terms that planting tapioca in the context of modern Singapore would only feed a few people, given the large numbers of people that we 

    Further, Sir, we should not relax on social discipline, and I was glad yesterday as I listened to the MP for Potong Pasir that he supports the idea of a disciplined society. Unfortunately, he is not a man of his word. I am told, Sir, that there is a certain political party that is holding illegal Meet-the-People sessions in the void decks of Chong Boon, in open defiance of the law, by people who are self-proclaimed alternatives to the present Government. If there is any association with the Member for Potong Pasir, let him speedily renounce this before this House and repent of his sin. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir made reference to the MRT yesterday. He decried the fact that because the MRT has been largely awarded to foreign contractors, the so-called multiplier effect upon the domestic economy has been minimal. This may be true to some extent, but I would like to pose a question to him; he is not here today. What alternative is there? Do we have the technology in Singapore to build the MRT? Are we going to do it with pick and shovel, boring those tunnels deep down into the earth, and take 30 years to accomplish the MRT? Or are we going to take advantage of modern technology that is available, contractors abroad who have the experience and who are willing to tender at very low prices to our benefit, and have the MRT starting by the year 1988? 

    The man does not appreciate the efforts that have been put in - the efforts to get the best deal for Singapore, the best technology for Singapore, to build the MRT in the quickest possible time in the most efficient way. Would the Member for Potong Pasir like to have the roads logged up with traffic, while mountains of earth are being moved gradually, over 30 years? I think the man needs to have his 

    But, surprisingly, he did have one good point. He mentioned that there are a lot of speculators in Singapore who make lots of money, speculating on land, on real estate, instead of channelling their money or their investments into more productive types, like growing mushrooms. I think it is a good point. And I think it is a consequence of a number of factors. Firstly, it is a consequence of our rapid growth. In a situation of rapid growth, many opportunities spring up for speculation. Furthermore, it is a consequence of the fact that we have no capital gains tax. So people can safely speculate, make their gains without having to worry about taxation. Now, Sir, the answer is not to put on a capital gains tax if we want a free and open market economy. But rather, I believe, the answer is to lower corporate taxes gradually over a course of time to make it more worthwhile for people to invest in more productive types of investment. The Member for Potong Pasir not only must make good suggestions but he must follow through with concrete proposals. 

    Unfortunately, the Member for Potong Pasir is not here this morning because there are a couple of points which he raised which I thought should not be passed over. He questioned the sincerity of the Government. I think the sincerity of the Government can be seen very clearly for the last 25 years in what we have achieved for the people. 

    Perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir has forgotten that not too long ago, on 13 December, at a rally in Potong Pasir, he called our dedicated community workers (Residents' Committee) "rubbish collectors". Yet, yesterday he was asking to be their Adviser. Is that sincerity? Does he really and sincerely want to be the Adviser to the people whom he had called "rubbish collectors"? Another point he brought up was the Germans: even after two world wars, they are still planting vegetables in their flats. A geography student told me - 

  hoiyung: I am going to. Be patient. To me, a strong trade union movement is one that is able to galvanize the workers for the good of the country. Its objectives are no different from the government or the employers. I will tell the Member again. The objectives are to improve the standard of living of the workers. Secondly, to educate the workers so that they are able to undertake jobs with higher skills and take on new challenges. Thirdly, to make our companies internationally competitive. These are very simple truths. Sir, you can ask any pre-university student and he will be able to tell you this. But, of course, this does not seem to be what the Member for Anson thinks it should be. I am really curious to know what he means by a strong trade union movement. 

    The hon. Member for Anson in his speech last Friday gave me the impression that he wants to fight battles already fought and won. There are new challenges ahead, serious challenges, and may be it is this that he does not seem to perceive: an attitude which reminds me of the illusions of Don Quixote. 

    Yesterday in this House when the hon. Member for Potong Pasir declared his 

 commitment to be a loyal Opposition, to be constructive in criticism and to play his role in nation building, I was almost swayed into believing that he sounded sincere. But, alas, the speech that followed was a sheer let-down. The Member for Whampoa and the Member for Kuo Chuan had commented on his speech in some detail. I just want to say, Sir, that he might have got away with half-truths in the last General Election. But let me assure him (but he is not here today, and I hope his fellow Opposition Member will tell him) that he is not going to get away with half-truths in this House. Sir, if his performance yesterday is, as I fear it is going to be, the forerunner of things to come from him, then this House can be sure not to expect any loyal Opposition from the Member for Potong Pasir. 

    Sir, the Member for Anson on Friday talked about violation of fundamental 

 rights. Sure they have fundamental rights in the United Kingdom. I do not want to go into a serious discourse except to remind the Member for Anson that the coal-miners' strike in the United Kingdom cost the United Kingdom government $5.2 billion. I think this is a luxury that we in Singapore cannot afford. 

    Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir yesterday tried to convince this House that he is a loyal Opposition Member, by which I infer that the Member for Anson is not. He is sincere and responsible. He will be constructive and that he wants to contribute to nation building. Sir, I am afraid his performance yesterday did not match his words. In his 45-minute speech, or spill, whichever way you might take it, he took every opportunity to discredit this Government and its achievements. Is this constructive criticism? Talk about credibility, he distorts a Blue Paper on the aged as Government policy and goes on to insinuate that this Government has no money to pay CPF holders. On the other hand, he went on to offer two solutions to our possible national problems. If a recession or a catastrophe is to hit us, then we can go back to rear chickens and plant vegetables. Mind you, Sir, he is very serious about this. In West Germany, he says people grow corn. Does he know the size of West Germany? Just for his information, Singapore has 600 sq km, West Germany 250,000 sq km. Maybe he should take another drive in Germany. 

    Having perused the Addenda to the Presidential Speech, one cannot but try to extract the essence of the various programmes which Ministries have put up. This essence, I feel, can be captured in two objectives; namely, first, the creation of more wealth and a better society for all Singaporeans; and secondly, the distribution of wealth amongst Singaporeans or, in more common terms, how and on whom to spend the money we shall earn. These objectives are really not new and, moreover, they look deceptively simple to achieve, so much so that I gather that the Member for Anson, who is not here now, was under the illusion that they could be achieved just simply through the stroke of a pen. In other words, the Member for Anson thinks that by changing the legislation, by amending the Constitution, by providing more rights which apparently we have been deprived of, we will all be well provided for. These objectives are not new, for the simple reason that these are the same challenges that we encountered when we first attained self-government in 1959, and subsequently when we achieved nationhood in 1965; and I will venture to 

    If we measure our achievements by these criteria, then we can be perceived as having failed miserably. I am not directing this criticism solely at the present younger leadership for whom I have great respect and admiration. I am directing it at ourselves collectively for allowing it to happen and we were blind to all the signals sent back to us by the people in their agony and frustration. The Member for Anson and the Member for Potong Pasir would be flattering themselves if they for one moment believe that they have brought about this turn in their political fortunes by their own effort. It is we who, through our own lopsided policies, have put them there. It is now up to the new leadership to remedy that situation and win back the supporters. To these supporters we must show concrete proof of our sincerity. It is no use telling them the nice things that are going to happen to them in the year 1999. It is no use telling them the fun things. Fun? What fun? It is no use telling them the fun things that are going to happen to them in 1999 when they cannot get themselves above the line of subsistence living now in 1985! 

    The way we spell our names separates us from the rest of the Chinese world. Do we want to remain distinct, or do we want to submerge into the ocean of obscurity? Is it not better for us to remain a separate entity, no matter how small that entity is? Or does Mr Tang See Chim want to link up with Deng Hsiao Peng and become the long lost relative and change his name to Deng Xi Chen? For instance, the Member for Potong Pasir, if I can have a very quick intelligent guess, from the way he spells his name, Chiam See Tong, maybe he is a Hainanese. Am I right? 

  Mr Dhanabalan: The Member for Anson is not raising a point of order. There is nothing wrong with the way that notice was given. Sufficient notice was given as required under Standing Orders. He could have filed whatever motions or questions he wanted any time. He need not have waited for me to give notice of a sitting. So the point raised is not a point of order. 

 have done so any time. There is no need for him to wait until a meeting is called. So no right has been denied, no opportunity has been deprived from the Member for Anson. He should have filed when he felt exercised and not waited for me to file the notice for a meeting. 

  Mr Speaker: This is exactly what I told the Member for Anson in private the other day. He has been given ample time to file his motion and I am afraid there is no point of order for me to rule on. 

  hoiyung: I have closed the case, Mr Chiam. 

    Just a point of clarification before I proceed further. I think it is not true, as what the Member for Potong Pasir has said, that all those who turned up at the rally on May Day were given umbrellas. Umbrellas were offered to supporters by some of the unions. I think it is an insult to Singaporeans to say that they need an umbrella as an incentive for them to turn up at the rally. 

    The Member for Anson expressed concern for textbooks for students, a point also made by other Members. In this regard, I would like to refer to the answer which was, in fact, given by the Member for Chong Boon - that licensing and other contractual arrangements can be made. But equally and more important, I would like to point out that there are specific provisions in the Bill for educational institutions and I would like particularly to refer to clause 52 onwards. 

    The point was also made by the Member for Anson that private educational institutions seem to be excluded from the benefit of the provisions pertaining to educational institutions. Where such educational institutions are organized solely for profit, I think the reason may be quite obvious because where educational institutions are run for profit the persons running the institution logically ought to bear the burden of infringement of copyright. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir supported the Bill but everything else that he spoke had nothing to do with the Bill. His points were completely irrelevant. He talked about intellectual freedom and so on. I do not intend to deal with the breakfast or dinners that he had with various persons. But one important point which I want to make by way of rebuttal is that, and I quote his exact words, "Every publication in Singapore will have to be screened." These are his exact words - "every publication". I would like to ask him under which law, either in this Copyright Bill or under which other provision, is any publication, including his journal of the Singapore Democratic Party, required to be submitted for the contents to be screened? I will save him the embarrassment of having to rise up and admit his ignorance because there is no law requiring him or anybody else who wants to publish a book or any other publication to submit the contents of the publication to any Government agency for prior censorship. He knows it. The publication of his Party - I forget the name and how often it appears - has carried all sorts of criticisms of the Government. Has he or his Party or the editors ever been asked to submit the contents of any forthcoming issue for publication for censorship or for approval or disapproval? 

  hoiyung: Or of a book. I do not know how you perform a book! Would the Member for Potong Pasir admit - 

  hoiyung: There are very few instances where the author of a play performs the play himself. I have asked on numerous instances for the Member for Potong Pasir to cite me actual examples or, if he cannot cite examples, the provision of any law or regulation which requires the author of a play, of a book, of a drama, of a novel, of a newspaper, or a periodical, to submit the contents prior to publication to a Government agency for approval. The answer is: there is no such legal requirement. The only legal requirement that exists is with regard to public performance of plays which may require licensing under the relevant rules of the Public Entertainments Act. So the Member for Potong Pasir not only does not say anything about the Copyright Bill but even his irrelevancies are totally wrong. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: He spoke about the May Day Rally. I am glad the Member for Kaki Bukit has answered him effectively. I was there, and I can testify that many of the persons who were there went there with infants in arms, little children who had to be carried. That speaks much more than the Member for Potong Pasir who admitted publicly that the only instance when he would have gone was if he was assured of an umbrella! So much for workers' solidarity! 

    I think I have covered most points, except the two raised by the Member for Anson. As to the question whether statutory boards should be brought under the Companies Act, I think it is unnecessary. The Member for Anson has said that because Statutory Boards do not have to comply with the Companies Act, it allows Government to conceal its profits. I think that is a totally absurd notion. Take the case of the Housing and Development Board. It is owned by the Government, which means it is owned by the people. There is no need to conceal profits, as profits belong to the people. I think it is a facile argument. However, it is not an issue I want to debate today. 

    Finally, the point raised by the Member for Anson as to the adequacy of powers under the existing Companies Act and the Securities Industry Act. I do not agree with his opinion obviously. He says that sections 230 and 231 give the Minister the power to declare any company a declared company. But what he does not realize is that the Minister cannot do this arbitrarily because he has to have a prima facie case and this is extremely difficult to prove under the present laws. Hence, the need for amendments introduced under sections 8A to 8H, for precisely this reason. 

    The Member for Anson has asked about the building and the land presently occupied by the Singapore Family Planning and Population Board at Dunearn Road. The land was leased from the Government. The building was paid for by a grant from IPPF. This building was subsequently handed over to the Government when the SFPPB was formed. Therefore, under this Repeal Bill, all the assets and liabilities of the Board will be handed over to the Government. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the expenditure of the Government is spelt out in the Government's Budget which I shall be presenting on Friday. On that occasion, the Member for Anson, as with all other Members of Parliament, will be free to question the Government on any item of expenditure which they care to ask. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson has said very correctly that they can employ seamen from other countries at a 

    Sir, I know that the Member for Anson has got a simple solution to all the complex problems of this world. His objective is really to solve small problems and in the process create big problems. And if the big problems create trouble for Singapore, so much the better because then he can say, "Ah, we have brought the Government down." Sir, this is not our approach. Our approach is to take the long-term view of the situation and attempt to solve the problems systematically, rationally. And this is why our objective is not to be protectionistic but to continue to encourage and provide the means for our workers in all categories, not just the seamen alone, but workers in all categories to upgrade their skills to make them capable of earning more and in the process have a much better life. 

  hoiyung: Sir, the Member for Anson obviously was not listening at all. 

    The Member for Chong Boon was right when he said yesterday that too often we use the price mechanism, meaning taxes, to solve problems. The policy of taxation on cars, for instance, again, is something which has been talked about many times inside and outside this House, We use the price mechanism to ease traffic congestion when there could have been other means. Again, these have been expounded many times. Today we face the prospect of further increases, if newspaper reports are anything to go by. Even the alternatives such as the MRT is not yet ready. Of course, I do not agree with the suggestion by the Member for Potong Pasir that one 

 of the ways to ease traffic congestion would be to raise speed limits so that everybody can drive faster and then the roads would not be so congested. I read the other day, Sir, that there is some thinking about bringing back the Singapore Grand Prix. Perhaps we could find a circuit in Potong Pasir and let the Member for Potong Pasir find out how thrilling and frightening fast driving can be. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I wish to answer two points raised by the Member for Potong Pasir, who is not in the House at present, about the Anthony Road flats. The Member for Potong Pasir is insinuating that the Government has changed its policy by not offering the Anthony Road flats to HUDC applicants. Prior to the transfer of HUDC flats from the HUDC to HDB, all HUDC flats were built in isolated estates, no different from any private development. Government considers this 

    Another point the Member for Potong Pasir has repeatedly claimed is that HDB flats are not subsidized by Government. I am not sure how he arrived at that conclusion. However, in the last election, in almost every rally, the Member for Potong Pasir repeated the same allegation that HDB flats were not only not subsidized but, in fact, the HDB was making huge profits from the sale of flats. I would like to quote what the Member for Potong Pasir said on 15th December 1984 during an SDP rally at a car park in Ang Mo Kio: 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, in his Party publication, The Demokrat, has on two or three occasions published figures and calculations on how the HDB accounts 

    From our accounts on the sale of HDB flats in the last two years, HDB has sold a total of more than 100,000 flats in 1983 and 1984, out of which 81.52% are 3- and 4-room flats. That means the -3- and 4-room flats form the overwhelming majority of flats sold by HDB. Most of these flats sold by HDB were built in new towns, such as Tampines New Town, Nee Soon New Town, Jurong East, Jurong West, Bukit Batok, and the HDB's classification of all these new towns is either in the new town zone or in the outer suburban zone. In both new town and outer suburban zones, where most of these flats were sold by HDB, the HDB was unable to recover the construction cost. In other words, most of the flats sold in the last two years by HDB - the 3- and 4-room flats - have to be subsidized on the cost of land. HDB has also to subsidize the overheads. HDB has to subsidize the interest. Yet the Member for Potong Pasir claims that HDB is making huge profits out of the sale of flats. I am not very sure whether this is due to the ignorance of the Member for Potong Pasir or his Party, or to the Member subscribing to the Nazi idea that if a lie is told repeatedly and often enough, it will be accepted as the truth. So the SDP has been continuously making the statement that the HDB is making money out of the sale of flats. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: No. There is no more land left in Potong Pasir. Then we will allow the Member for Potong Pasir to build four types of flats. In the last two years he has been claiming that HDB is making money. As I have said, the largest number of flats sold by HDB is the 3- and 4-room flats, and an overwhelming majority of these flats are the new generation and Model A flats. HDB will provide the Member for Potong Pasir the plans, free of charge, again, for one block of 3-room new generation flats, one block of 4-room new generation flats, one block of Model A 3-room flats and one block of Model A 4-room flats. These are the largest number of flats sold by HDB in 1983 and 1984. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir can make arrangements either with his Party people or his contractor, or with his adviser. Someone must advise him how to calculate the cost of HDB flats for sale. He must have some expert advice. He can get an expert or several experts to advise him on how to build these flats. These four blocks of flats will be built according to HDB plans. HDB will not draw up new plans, so that HDB cannot be accused of trying to fix him by drawing very difficult or new plans which he is unable to build. These will be the old plans which are exactly the same for other HDB flats. So he will build those four blocks, and he will sell these four blocks to HDB at the same price as HDB sells to its applicants on the waiting list. 

    According to his claim, for each unit of 3-room flat he can make $22,000 and for each unit of 4-room flat he can make $40,000. I think the Singapore Democratic Party would become the richest political party in Singapore if such a huge profit is made. 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: No, we will arrange for a suitable engineer to supervise the project, so it will not collapse. Definitely we must make sure that the flats are safe because we are going. to offer these flats to Singaporeans on the HDB waiting list. We cannot offer them dangerous flats that may collapse. If the Member for Potong Pasir is always questioning the sincerity of the Government, if 

 he is really sincere and believing that HDB is making huge profits, we are now offering this good opportunity for his Party to make huge profits. And we are giving the land free to him, charging him nothing, and helping him with the clearance of the squatters so that he can get on with the building. And if he is making huge profits, he wants to build some more flats, I can assure him I will offer him some more land o build flats. If he is able to build flats much cheaper than HDB, why not? All the people will benefit, his party will benefit, HDB will benefit, Singaporeans will benefit by these cheap flats which the Member for Potong Pasir knows how to build while HDB does not know how to build. Thank you, Sir. [Applause] 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: Mr Speaker, Sir, just now I made an offer to the Member for Potong Pasir while he was not in this House. Since he is here now, I would like to repeat my offer. 

    On the 15th December, 1984, before the last general elections, the Member for Potong Pasir claimed, in an SDP rally in Ang Mo Kio, that the HDB not only did not subsidize the sale of flats to the people but also made substantial profits. He stated that the HDB was making $22,000 for each unit of 3-room flat and $40,000 per unit of 4-room flat sold to Singaporeans. In the sale of flats in 1983 and 1984, from HDB's accounts and from our own calculations, the HDB not only made no profit but had to heavily subsidize the sale of these flats. So in order to resolve this dispute and in order to clear this doubt whether the Member is right or the HDB is right, I now would like to make an offer to him. 

    The Minister of State for Home Affairs and Community Development (Mr Wong Kan Seng): Sir, may I ask the Minister a point of clarification? If the Member for Potong Pasir is required to build the four blocks of flats, is he also required to build the infrastructure, ie, the other facilities that are part and parcel of the estate? 

  Mr Speaker: Are you giving way, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Sir, does this imply that the Member for Potong Pasir did not 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Potong Pasir tried to deflect my question by refusing to answer it at all. I made my point very clear that if he could believe those figures himself and he wanted the voters of Singapore to believe his lie, why can he not accept the proposition straightaway? Planning approval is presumed to be given, everything is ready to start building. And perhaps if he wants a loan, would you, Mr Minister, be prepared to give him a subsidized loan? 

  Mr Speaker: Anyway, Mr Chiam, you are considering the offer, are you not? 

  Mr Teh Cheang Wan: No, I am not going to withdraw it. I just want to find out from the Member for Potong Pasir how long does he require to consider this offer, since he has made the calculation and come out with the definite figure that HDB is making $22,000 for every unit of 3-room flats, $40,000 for every unit of 4-room flats. The calculation must have been made, and I presume the Member for Potong Pasir must have a technical adviser since he himself is not an architect, not a developer. He is a lawyer. He has come out with a figure and speaking in the SDP party rally, I presume he must have got some expert advice in arriving at those figures. So may I know when he can definitely give me an answer. 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, I must, at this stage, assure the Member for Potong Pasir that this book has no direct relevance to the predicament the two Members are in, as revealed in their speeches. As I recall, the Member for Potong Pasir and the Member for Anson separately claimed with great sincerity and utter conviction that they each individually represented the people of Singapore, that they spoke for the people of Singapore, that each was the only true voice of the oppressed majority of Singapore and, if I heard them correctly, that unless the PAP heeded their call to repent and amend its ways, then both of them separately saw themselves as the chosen redeemers of the people of Singapore. 

    Had the Member for Anson asserted here that he speaks for 9,909 Singa- 

 poreans in Anson and had the Member for Potong Pasir insisted that he spoke for 10,128 Singaporeans, I would have accepted these as plausible and rational claims. I would also have accepted as a triumph for rationality had they claimed that each represented the majority of the people in Anson or at Potong Pasir. That is reasonable, obvious. I would have even accepted as a reasonable claim by the Member for Anson had he stated that his Party as a whole spoke for 110,939 Singaporeans, just short of one to make a round figure. I would have accepted that. Similarly, I could have been persuaded by the Member for Potong Pasir, who is the unacknowledged Leader of the Opposition, that he represented 32,102 Singaporeans throughout Singapore. That is accurate, factual, and there is no delusion. 

    This, Mr Deputy Speaker, I submit, requires a delusion of considerable magnitude. It is not in the Christ-class but quite close. So these two Members with just 143,000-odd voters claim that they are the true voice of the people, possibly even of God, and to talk as though the PAP with its 1,118,000-odd votes has fallen out of favour with the people and it is tottering on the brink of political bankruptcy. The Member for Potong Pasir has got a new word - credibility. I heard him just now. He talked at great length, waxed eloquent, on the credibility of the Government was in question. I ask him: whose credibility is in question when, with 32,000-odd votes, he claims to speak for Singapore? 

 with the Member for Potong Pasir. The Member for Anson is not here - so could you please pass this offer to him? I could ask the mind-doctor to study objectively the facts that I have given to determine whose credibility is in doubt. I am talking of a scientifically trained mind-doctor, a psychologist, clinician. 

    Apart from this, there is also the other equally intriguing question of whether it is the Member for Potong Pasir or the Member for Anson, even if you go along with their delusion, who can claim to speak for the people, since both claimed that they are the true people's loudspeaker. So that is why I think "The Three Christs", should be of particular interest to both. It may even save them. Now, I do not propose to reveal how"The Three Christs" resolved their difficulties. I think I should not deprive the two distinguished Opposition Members the pleasure of discovering what exactly happened. All I can hint is to tell them that it was earth-shaking, 

    Mr Deputy Speaker, Sir, the time has now come for me to turn my fraternal attention to the Member for Queenstown and launch my lecture on Useful Criticism and Fun Criticism. Let me, before I indulge in verbal karate, say that there were things in his speech which I found agreeable; others disagreeable, but legitimate and forgivable. But there was a great deal which should have properly come from either the Member for Anson or the Member for Potong Pasir. In fact, I was watching the Member for Potong Pasir closely yesterday while my colleague from Queenstown was striking out for waters which were clearly out of his depth. And I thought I saw a look of profound envy on the face of the Member for Potong Pasir, who obviously wished he had the imprudence to have gone as far as the Member for Queenstown did. Maybe next time he will not be so timid. Strike out. Do not hesitate, even if you cannot swim, deep waters are good. 

  Mr Rajaratnam: I can understand the Member for Potong Pasir indulging as he did in politics of envy in the recent elections. He too made the point about Ministers wallowing in luxury - together presumably with lawyers because I do not think that lawyers are poor people - while the masses wallowed in poverty. I can understand the Member for Potong Pasir doing it because he had to get into this Chamber. He needed the politics of envy to help him win his election and I like to think that Ministers' pay helped him to get into this Parliament. But what need was there for the Member for Queenstown who rode into this Chamber on the PAP horse to play the same game? What need was there? This is inferior politics. 

    I have no objection to the Member for Potong Pasir doing it because I know the reason. He, the Member for Queenstown, obviously thought that this was not a nice thing. It had to be mentioned in this Parliament. In fact, as a matter of principle, has the Member for Queenstown then been denying himself of these increases? Because if so, there must be a small fortune lying unclaimed in the Ministry of Finance, to the profit of the Treasury and to the glory of the Member for Queenstown, But if he has been quietly pocketing the fruits of injustice and disregard for the sufferings of the poor, then we are entering the dark realms of yet another kind of politics, the politics of hypocrisy. In my view (at some future time I will elaborate on this) the reason why both in developed and developing countries politics and economics are in a mess is because in these countries politics of envy and politics of hypocrisy have been allowed to run riot. We are not ashamed for having increased the salaries of MPs and Ministers. We make no secret about it. In fact, if Ministers who are in charge of billions of dollars - he says he rests his case on $17,000 - are paid $17,000 when they are responsible for ensuring that millions of billions of dollars worth of prosperity is created in Singapore, is that wrong? I think the Member for Queenstown knows that there are Ministers here who earn far more before they came in here. 

  hoiyung: Since the Member for Potong Pasir is seeking his clarification, may I have mine too? I never said that it was wrong for Ministers to be paid and to have high pay. I never said that. What I did was to show a comparison. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has a habit of smelling a rat when there is not any around. He has a suspicious turn of mind. What I said earlier on was that the Government has come to an agreement with 90% of the farmers who had incurred expenses as a result of the programme to require them to set up waste treatment plants. All these expenses have been documented and the Committee has reviewed all the claims to the expenses, and where each and every expense is justified it has been reimbursed in full. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has been in this House longer than 1. He was in this House on 14 March 1984 when my predecessor, the hon. Member for Changi, informed this House and, of course, the Member for Anson too, and here, Mr Speaker, Sir, allow me to quote: 

  hoiyung: On a point of order, Mr Speaker, Sir. Ought not the Member for Anson ask this question at the time the previous statement was made? 

    The other point that I want to remind the Member for Anson is that a wet market entails a high cost in terms of manpower. A very large number of people is required to man these very few stalls in the perspective of the number of hours that they actually operate. And the alternative offered by the HDB which is responsible for building all the new towns is a far better solution for the residents. The supermarkets and the mini-markets operate for much longer hours of shopping for the convenience of the residents. If our residents are to have food, fresh good quality food available to them at their convenience in a mini-market or a supermarket which opens from 9.30 in the morning to 9.30 in the evening must represent a tremendous improvement of service. It also makes it so much easier for all the working mothers, the working women, on their way home, to just purchase what they need and go home and cook for the family; rather than rush out early in the morning to do their shopping in a wet market which is congested, wet, as he says, and very often very crowded. 

    The other point, Mr Speaker, Sir, which I would like to remind the Member for Anson is that we have in the past built many wet markets, and at the present moment many of these markets have large numbers of vacant stalls. Many of the stalls are unoccupied. Many of the people who have taken up the stalls have discontinued their business. Is that not in itself, Sir, indicative that our lifestyle in Singapore is changing to the point where people are more comfortable, more willing and better prepared to use the facilities offered by the mini-markets and supermarkets with their extended hours of shopping? 

    However, Mr Speaker, Sir, it is an oddity to me to hear the views put forward by the Member for Anson who looks at the distribution of earnings of this country from two angles. Firstly, his view that this Parliament should become the sounding board of the nation. Mr Speaker, Sir, I think there is no need for the Member for Anson to mince his words. We have seen how several Parliaments in Latin America, in Africa, which claim to be genuine Parliaments, in fact Parliaments in the West claiming to be genuine Parliaments that reflect the people's aspirations, have failed to attain the objective of distributing more equitably to the people the wealth of the country. The Member for Anson has 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member also looked at the equality of distribution of a country's wealth from the point of view of the relationship between the trade unions and employers. He alleges that the trade unions in Singapore have become the tools of and are under the shackles of the Government. This is not a new allegation and it has been bandied about ad nauseam. However, what I wish to point out to this House, Mr Speaker, Sir, is that from the remarks made by the Member for Anson, it is obvious that he advocates Whitehall and Westminster type of trade unions, without the slightest consideration for Singapore's different cultural and environmental factors. Therefore, it requires a totally different approach. However, he is confident that the problem of unequal earnings in Singapore, Mr Speaker, Sir, can be resolved by clothing our National Trades Union Congress with the coat worn by the Trade Union Congress. 

    I think the Member for Kuo Chuan has smothered well the arguments of the Member for Anson, when he stated that during his two-year stay in Britain, strikes occurred with its attendant ill-effects. I may not be fortunate enough to be able to stay for two years in Britain; and much more unfortunate when compared to the son of the Member for Anson who was in Britain for many years. I am sure he has been in contact, by lefters, with his son. So, although I am unlucky, because I can only afford to stay in Britain for three months, yet I have a much clearer picture of events that occurred between April and July last year. If the Member's son had been communicating with him, surely he must have been informed that it was not just the coal miners who went on strike between April and July last year. When I was there, nurses, teachers, postmen, bus drivers, train drivers, all downed tools. All 

 this happened in three months. This is the type of industrial relationship advocated by the Member for Anson as a means whereby workers can earn more rewards in order that inequality of earnings can be remedied. I request the Member for Anson to think very carefully. If the one-year strike in Britain has resulted in the coal-mining industry suffering a loss amounting to billions of dollars, what would happen if our bus workers went on strike for one year? I am sure he is not inconvenienced because he moves around in cars. 

    I fail to see the Member for Anson offering better alternatives when he persisted in wanting that our industrial relations be managed as in Britain. In Britain, the coal miners are members of the National Union of Miners. They joined the union only to become unemployed for a year whilst others lost their jobs. However, Singapore workers need not become union members in order to enjoy annual pay increases and improved working conditions. Hence, Mr Speaker, Sir, I had heard the Secretary-General, NTUC, who is also a Member of this House, on a previous occasion venting his anger, That is the type of labour environment that obtains in Singapore. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, when the Member for Anson shouts from the rooftop that workers be given the freedom of action, he was unmindful of the interests of Singapore. He is willing, in order that his ideal be implemented, to destroy Singapore by creating tense situations, and I hope the Member for Potong Pasir will be more rational in his arguments because he has declared that his interests are synonymous with the interests of Singapore. Therefore, his duty is to ensure that Singapore is in a sound state of health. 

    To me, Mr Speaker, Sir, this responsibility is important, and it is our duty to produce a new generation who is capable to take over Singapore's leadership, in the fields of politics, economics, trade, social, cultural, and so on from the present leadership. The question of whether the future leadership comes from the PAP, Workers' Party or Singapore Democractic Party is not an important issue. We want to produce a new generation of Singaporeans who are capable of preserving what we have already achieved, That is our responsibility. 

    Do the points and remarks made by the Opposition show that they want to create such a society? I am not convinced. If the Member for Potong Pasir, who has pledged his interests to Singapore, is aware of Singapore's interests, why then in this House did he raise such issues like increased hospital charges, or threw wild allegations that the Government cannot afford to pay back CPF contributions because the funds are tied up (although during the last election campaign he stated that we had no funds whatsoever to do so, but now modified his statement to say that the money is tied up and therefore cannot afford to pay). If he raises the question of rearing chickens in flats, that we are producing an alienated society through our education streaming system, is he playing the role of a constructive Opposition in this House? I think not. 

    I dare say that the stand of the Member for Potong Pasir is not different from a woodpecker who is perched on a strong branch - the branch symbolizes Singapore - but announcing to the world that the branch is fragile, full of holes, rotten, yet his feet are glued to the branch, and he pecks the hole in order to destroy whatever we have built. This then is the stand and stance demonstrated by the Member for Potong Pasir. So, are the two Opposition Members aware that we need to find a common ground on the issue of "Ideals, Interests and Responsibilities" as Members of this House? 

    The Member for Potong Pasir in his speech stated that he is very sincere and he also wants to help this low income group. However, his comments on the recent increase in accouchement fees leave doubts in my mind as to whether he is really sincere in wanting to help this unfortunate group of our citizens. 

    Contrast this, however, with the statements made by the hon. Member for Anson. His whole speech was devoted to purveying the untruth that in Singapore there are no fundamental freedoms, no rights of the individual. He asked for a restoration of the rights of individuals in Singapore. First of all, let me say that the Member for Anson has taken an oath in this august Chamber which, inter alia, says that he will preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of Singapore. But implicit in the oath also is that he must not omit the important provisions of this Constitution. He must not mislead the Members of this House; he must not mislead Singaporeans. Why did he fail to mention in his speech that our laws and our Constitution provide for fundamental freedoms and rights of individuals which are enshrined in our Constitution? If Government and the Legislature should act inconsistently with the provisions of the Constitution, this could lead to a challenge of governmental action in our courts of law. Not only that, how did these provisions in our Constitution and laws come about? Were they handed to us by the colonial legislature and that we had no choice but to keep them in the statute books? He has again failed to tell us the whole truth. And the whole truth is, Mr Speaker, Sir, that when we separated from Malaysia we were left with the State Constitution of Singapore which had no provisions on fundamental rights of individual freedoms. How is it that these provisions were brought about? They were brought about by a decision of the Government which passed the law in this Chamber in 1965 known as the Republic of Singapore Independence Act (Act 9 of 1965), by which the provisions of the Constitution of Malaysia on fundamental rights were made to have continuing applicability in Singapore. So the Member for Anson has failed to bring this --- 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson can have his say at the appropriate time. My point is that the theme of the Member for Anson's speech 

  hoiyung: If I am not telling the truth, the Member for Anson can refute me. As I said, provisions of the Constitution of Malaysia were made applicable in Singapore. He can check the Hansard, he can check Act 9 of 1965 where certain provisions were modified because of the Singapore situation. But he has deceived this House by not making any reference to the provisions in the Constitution which he has sworn to defend and uphold. I am 

  Prof S. Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, before we broke up, I made the point that the Member for Anson had failed to bring to this House the fact that there were provisions in our Constitution, in our laws, which were brought about by an Act of this Government, Let me proceed now to the remainder of his thesis, which is to say that we must have provisions from other countries, practices of other countries adopted here. He pointed out the provisions of the Constitution of Guyana. Has he been to Guyana? I have been to Guyana. Has he read what has happened there? Grandiose provisions in the Constitution of Guyana did not prevent a religious fanatic from establishing a macabre cult which resulted in mass suicides and murders of hundreds of people who were in the town. We read about it. We saw it on TV. It happened under the nose of the government. Do we want that to happen here? 

    The Member for Anson said we have no fundamental freedoms. He said there is no freedom of speech. If there is no freedom of speech, how is it that the Member for Anson has been able to express all his vitriolic criticisms, scurrilous attacks on the PAP, the Government and the leaders all these years? Is there no freedom of movement? There is freedom of movement. But, Mr Speaker, Sir, freedom must be balanced with societal interests and the interests of the majority. Freedom of speech, yes, but freedom of speech does not mean that one can make inflammatory speeches to incite racial and religious hatred. We have not forgouen the SPLO which not too long ago involved a member of the party of the Member for Anson. It involved persons who, if they had not been arrested in time, would have caused racial strife in Singapore. Freedom of movement, yes, but not the right to riot, to smash windows, loot, as we see on television. Freedom of movement, yes. Right to travel, yes. But if you have criminal connections, connections with drug syndicates on the international level, we must deny them the right to passports. 

    The Member for Anson says that Singaporeans are not allowed to marry. Here again is a distortion of the truth for he knows that Singaporeans can marry. What is it that we have done? We have said that the 150,000 to 160,000 work permit holders who are here to perform tasks for a limited period, here for a temporary period, the vast majority of whom are unskilled, know that they are here for temporary purposes and they must go back. We say, "If you want to marry, the condition is that you must seek the approval of the Government". The reasons have been spelt out. This is to avoid the tremendous social, economic and political consequences which countries in the West have faced as a result of uncontrolled influx of foreign labour. 

    So, Mr Speaker, Sir, it is not that we do not have rights. We have rights. The Member for Anson, if you read his speech, the flavour of his speech is to advocate absolute rights because he has not anywhere in his speech talked about the interests of society as a whole. What have we achieved in Singapore? 

    The Member for Anson asked for provisions from other countries. Mr Speaker Sir, in the Law Library at the Nationai University of Singapore I can tell you that there are impressive collections of constitutions of the countries, One collection is called "Peaslee's Constitutions of the Nations". The other is "Blaustein's Constitutions of the Countries of the World." If you read these volumes, you will think that every country in the world has a most 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, I had the occasion to serve as a Human Rights Officer in the United Nations Secretariat and was involved in the preparatory work for the drafting of the International Bill of Human Rights and International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, instruments which the Member for Anson from time to time invoke. As I listened to the report and United Nations debates, one was struck with a hypocrisy of those who made incantations of human rights. The representatives of the most oppressive regimes were the ones who made the longest speeches about human rights. 

    My point is this. He said in this Parliament: may I commend to the Governnment restoration or investing of people of their rights? Elsewhere, he said that in Singapore there were no fundamental freedoms and liberties. And I pointed out before lunch that he failed to bring to this House's attention the fact that there are provisions in our Constitution and laws, and I asked: why is it that the Member for Anson, although he has sworn to uphold and defend the Constitution, misled this House by not bringing that important fact to the attention of the House? Secondly, he has asked, "Is there freedom of speech?" There is freedom of speech. 

  hoiyung: The Member for Anson has been spouting untruths, lies, attacks on the Government. If there is no freedom of speech, how was it that he was able to do that? How was it that his members in the pany were able to similarly make wild allegations? Mr Speaker, Sir, is that freedom from fear? I ask him to travel in New York, take a walk in the streets of New York; ask him to see whether he has the same freedom and the 

    As a Minister for Home Affairs, as a person trained in law, there is nothing better that I would like than to repeal preventive detention, if I could do so. Because if I had a choice, I would want to prosecute every criminal in a court of law because the sentence, the publicity given to it, would have the greatest impact. But we have vicious criminals, secret society gangsters, who commit the worst kind of crimes but cannot get convictions because children whom they have raped or molested are unable to get evidence in the Court. Because we are unable to convict them in a Court of law, do we want, therefore to release these hundreds of vicious criminals onto our streets to terrify our loved ones? That is the policy question. This is where there is a big difference between the Member for Anson and the Government. If he had his way, he would abolish preventive detention, release all these criminals onto the streets. We, the Government, say we have a responsibility to the vast majority of our population and as long as we are in power, we want to protect the vast majority against this minority of black sheep. 

  Prof Jayakumar: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson advocates freedom of speech. He insists on the right to intervene. With your characteristic fairness, you have accorded him the right to speak, but his double standards on freedom of speech are such that he would deny me the right to expound my reply. 

    Here, the Member for Potong Pasir has taken advantage of this suggestion that CPF withdrawal age be deferred. He has exploited this by arguing that this is one indication that CPF does not have enough funds to pay the people, and I believe he has come up with a series of calculations which, frankly, I did not bother to study very closely because we have seen what he has done with the calculations for HDB flats. 

  Mr Goh Chok Tong: May I ask the Member for Potong Pasir what does he think - whether it will be paid back in cash or in instalments? And why has he been telling the people that we are unable to pay? The question is that the Member for Potong Pasir has been poisoning the people's mind. That is why I personally welcome his presence in Parliament because here, when he tries to inject doses of poison into the people's mind, there are many eyes watching him. 

    Would we pay back in cash or in instalments? The Prime Minister has already assured the people that we are not interested in delaying the withdrawal age of CPF funds which you have today and you can withdraw them in cash. As I have explained just now, you can, in fact, withdraw them in cash to invest in properties, even now. There is no need for us to belabour this point unless the Member for Potong Pasir thinks that it is necessary for me to make it even simpler. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, if indit amusing that the Member for Potong Pasir should from time to time challenge the credibility of the Government. The PAP has been returned in election after election from 1959. The people know what we can do. If they do not believe we have any credibility, they would not have returned the PAP again and again from 1959. But since we talk about credibility, perhaps the Member for Potong Pasir should stand in front of a mirror and examine his own credibility. On Friday last week when the Member for Anson, who is not here at this moment, moved an amendment to the motion, he supported the amendment. He was running with a hare. Three days later, he stood up to support the motion moved by the Member for Ayer Rajah. He has begun to hunt with the hounds. So in a matter of three days, he has outwardly changed sides. Yes, I think there is technicality. But 

  hoiyung: If you openly declare that you are not going to be loyal to the ruling Party, disloyal to the ruling Party, it follows that one of your objectives must be to look for opportunities to bring down the ruling Party. "No sane person will destroy what we have built up." That was stated clearly by the Member for Potong Pasir. But I can tell him and Members of the House that unsound ideas can also bring down a country. We do not require insane persons to be in charge to bring down a place. Unsound ideas themselves can bring down the whole edifice of a country. When the Member for Potong Pasir was expounding on rearing chickens as an unemployment insurance, as a means to fall back on during wartime, I noticed that the Member for Anson was covering his face. Maybe he was tired but he did cover his face for a while. 

    Here again, I am reminded of the half-truth that was first put up by the Member for Potong Pasir - that each time a Minister went for a walk-about, he was paid $600. I was surprised 'to receive a telephone call from a journalist. He rang me up to ask, "Is it true that each time a Minister went for his walk-about, he was paid $600?" I was astounded, and said, "How could that be?" I could only guess that what the Member meant was that Ministers were paid $18,000 per month, divided by 30 days, it- works out to $600 a day. And indeed that was clarified later on, I believe, by the Member for Potong Pasir. But when he first put it across, he said that each time a Minister went for a walk-about, he was paid $600. 

  hoiyung: Are you going to ask a supplementary question or not, Mr Chiam? 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, under the new accounting system this is clearly shown. In fact, if the Member for Potong Pasir is not aware, he can read the Gazette Notification on the Housing and Development Board's 1986-87 budget. It is quite clearly spelt out in this budget that the gross loss on sale of flats under the new accounting system for the financial year 1985-86 is a probable Actual of $633 million. The budget for 1986-87 is $660,510,000. He can read this in the Gazette Notification. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I would suggest to the Member for Anson to submit a Written Question so that I could give a very detailed Written Answer on all the points he has raised, because they are not part of the Oral Question that he has asked. 

  hoiyung: The last question has been dealt with, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the guilty party has risen to make the confession. The Member for Anson has failed to note the most important point. It is not how many copies of the publication were sold. 

  hoiyung: I think the Member for Potong Pasir had better listen instead of interjecting, so that he will know what is going on. 

    The Member for Anson asked me if I had received complaints. I have told him that not only the Member for Telok Blangah has received complaints, but I also have received complaints. And it does not matter whether there were 10, 20 or 30 complaints. The point is that the Member 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, it is necessary for us to remind ourselves of the question asked by the Member for Anson. It shows that he has not got his facts correct. What was his question? His question was: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs why the police forbid the playing of religious music and singing of religious songs at temples. That is the first part of his question. There is no basis to this. The second part of his question concerns "those accompanying the persons carrying kavadi along the route during the observance of Thaipusam." I have answered the question, and I think I have answered the question adequately. 

    Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson and all Members here must realize that there must be a balance between, on the one hand, accommodating the religious objectives and sentiments and, on the other hand, maintaining a smooth flow of traffic, commerce and pedestrian movements during the whole day that the Thaipusam celebrations are going on. Indeed the Police presence has been appreciated by the devotees as well as the authorities of the temples. They have shown much tolerance, much care, in exercising their powers. And this measure concerning music and musical instruments is, in fact, to facilitate as far as possible the rapid flow of both kavadi carriers and normal traffic. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Member for Anson has asked, what constitutes an emergency? Under the guidelines given to the public, an emergency is an illness or an injury which could end in death or serious complication if it is not treated immediately. Examples of emergencies would include major injuries such as fractures and dislocation of the skeleton, head injuries, deep cuts or large wounds on the body, severe bleeding and severe burns or scalding. 

  hoiyung: If the Member for Anson has any information of that nature, I will be very happy to get the facts from him. As far as we are concerned, we have discussed with the doctors and they are all in agreement with the scheme. 

  Dr Tan Cheng Bock: Any responsible government should not allow this to happen, or the people of Singapore will be moved to believe that all these untruths after being repeated a couple of times, are truths; for example, that the HDB makes money from selling flats and that the Government cannot pay back the CPF in cash. I hope the hon. Member for Anson will move away from his obsession on human rights and fundamental freedom which is already entrenched in our Constitution, and to tackle the Government on specific issues. With regard to the Member for Potong Pasir, I can only sympathize with him. He is going to have three busy months ahead of him to come out with a plan to build cheap houses. 

  Prof. S. Jayakumar: I noted with strange coincidence that when the votes were taken just now, the Member for Potong Pasir was at the entrance and it was most unfortunate that he was not given an opportunity to express his Aye or Nay. But I take it that his vote would have been affirmative since he said the other day that he supported the motion in the name of the hon. Member for Ayer Rajah. And if it was otherwise, I am sure he would stand up and say so. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, then the record should state that the Member for Anson has said that he abstained, which makes it more interesting in that the Member for Potong Pasir supports the motion and the Member for Anson abstains. 

  Prof. Jayakumar: We should applaud the Member for Potong Pasir. [Applause]. 

    Two Opposition Members have been elected under section 49(7) of the Act, that is, under the first-past-the-post system. Therefore, one non-constituency MP was declared by the Returning Officer as elected under section 51 (A) of the Act, and he was Mr M.P.D. Nair of the Workers' Party. As we know, he has not taken the Oath of Allegiance and the motion today is to declare his seat vacant and to fill it with the next succeeding candidate who is Mr Tan Chee Kien of the Singapore United Front who polled 46.66% in Kaki Bukit. The motion will therefore declare that the vacant seat be filled by Mr Tan and that he be deemed to be elected a non-constituency Member of Parliament. 

  Mr Dhanabalan: Mr Speaker, Sir, the points made by the two Opposition Members are not new. The Member for Anson was here when the Bill to amend the Parliamentary Elections Act was debated. He made the same points during the Second Reading; he tried to make the same points at the Committee Stage. The Bill was passed. It has been assented to by the President and is now law. Parliament is being now asked to exercise the power under the law. 

    I think the Member for Anson is now in the process of compiling his own dictionary of political terms. By his definition, we are still not a parliamentary democracy. Parliamentary democracy means rule of the majority. I think this is the first point that he should note, rule of the majority. Secondly, it means periodic exercise of the people to elect the government of their choice. Do the two Members of the Opposition think, or claim, that the people of Singapore have not exercised their choice freely? Do they claim that the elections were not clean? If so, they should say so. The people have over many elections exercised their choice, and their choice has been that there should be no directly elected Opposition Members of Parliament. That is their choice. And so it should be. It is parliamentary democracy in practice. 

    The Member for Anson cannot claim that because the people did not elect Opposition Members, therefore, there is no parliamentary democracy. It is because, in election after election, no Opposition Member was returned to this House in the normal process of first-past-the-post system, that we amended the Parliamentary Elections Act to provide for up to three Non-Constituency Members. Well, in spite of all the sound and fury of the Opposition, they managed to get only two 

    The Member for Potong Pasir, as well as the Member for Anson, has made the point that the Non-Constituency MP is a second-class MP, that he cannot do what an MP is expected to do. I thought, Mr Speaker, Sir, that politicians are practical people. They look at the practical exercise of influence and power. In what way can the two Opposition Members here do more than the Non-Constituency Member, in practical terms? Can they block a Constitutional amendment, or a Money Bill, or carry a Motion of No-Confidence? The Non-Constituency Member can move a motion on any Money Bill. He can move a motion on any Constitutional Bill; he can support a motion; he can debate a motion; and if he is unwise he can continue to say what the Member for Anson has been saying in this House. He can do everything. 

    As I said, Mr Speaker, Sir, I would have assumed that politicians are practical people. Are the two Opposition Members afraid that some other party member will share what they think is the limelight that they are now enjoying? If they have no arguments against Mr Tan being deemed to be elected a Non-Constituency Member under the law, they should say so. The Member for Potong Pasir says, "Mr Tan will represent no one. Who does he represent? He represents no one." Well, if I accept his argument, can I therefore ask both of them to state quite clearly whether, in the case of the Member for Potong Pasir, he represents only the 10,000-odd voters who voted him in Potong Pasir, and, in the case of the Member for Anson, that he only represents the 9,900-odd voters who voted for him in Anson? In other words, if they claim that the 46.6% of the 

    So if the two Members have no reason to adduce as to why Mr Tan should not be declared as a Non-Constituency Member, they should hold their peace. I think we have been quite liberal in allowing them to say what they have said because, strictly speaking, Sir, these are not matters relevant to the motion. The motion is just to implement the law. The points they made, at least in the case of the Member for Anson (he has had an opportunity to make them when the amendment was debated) were made and the Bill has been passed. It is now law, and we intend to implement that law. 

  hoiyung: Mr Deputy Speaker, I would have thought that those who filed the question should know whether the question has been answered or not. But anyway, Sir, I will answer the Member for Potong Pasir. The differential pricing will be in the range of 2-6%, depending upon the various features either in terms of premium or in terms of discount. 

  hoiyung: Order. Mr Chiam, can you ask your supplementary question? 

  hoiyung: I have to inform the House that I received a letter from J.B. Jeyaretnam & Co. dated the 27th November 1986 written on behalf of hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, may I just make a comment on what you have just read? 

  Mr Speaker: No. It is not usual for Members to make comments on my Statement. You ask your first Question for Oral Answer, Mr Chiam. 

    The Government will take a decision in the latter half of next year. We shall inform the Member for Potong Pasir. 

  hoiyung: Mr Chiam, could you please ask your supplementary question? You are making a speech. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, this is not the first time we have debated the question of whether there should be a bye-election. In 1983 when the late Mr Hon Sui Sen passed away and his seat in Havelock fell vacant we had a fairly lengthy debate in this House. There is nothing in the law that even requires a bye-election to be held. I am speaking on the basis of an Opinion from the Attorney-General. If the Member for Potong Pasir feels very strongly that the law requires that we hold a bye-election within a reasonable time, which he puts as "three months", I think he is aware of the legal recourses that he has to force the Government to have a bye-election. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I think the Member for Potong Pasir must know that whatever happens in any bye -election in Anson will not in the slightest way affect the performance of this Government because we have such an overwhelming majority here. So that is certainly not the consideration. I take it, Mr Speaker, Sir, that the Member for Potong Pasir is so anxious to have a bye-election in Anson because his Party will contest the bye-election. 

  hoiyung: Mr Speaker, Sir, I have already stated why we invited the Israeli President. I have also stated what our anticipated reaction on the part of Malaysia was. As a sovereign country, I am sure the Member for Potong Pasir must agree, we have the right to invite the leaders of countries with which we have diplomatic relations. 

  hoiyung: I am not giving you any chance because you are making a speech, Mr Chiam. 

  hoiyung: Let us have your supplementary question, Mr Chiam, or you sit down. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has been having problems all along with his figures. Today he is no different. He said that I had in my opening address stated that there were only three countries that have to date adopted this system of presumed consent. This is where he is mistaken, unfortunately. I stated that there were 14 countries in Europe. And I gave four examples, not three. I gave three examples, plus Belgium, which is the latest country to adopt this system. The European position is quite interesting because most of the countries in Europe that have adopted this system of presumed consent are countries that have a strong belief in personal rights, strong belief in the democratic processes, strong belief in protecting the individual as far as intervention by the State is concerned. Yet these very conservative countries in terms of personal rights have been the pace setters in terms of enacting laws that allow presumed consent. In that respect they have been very progressive. So I would like to correct the Member for Potong Pasir. There are not three but fourteen countries that have adopted this system to date. 

    The Member for Potong Pasir has given a very simplistic example of one person who has agreed to donate and another person who has not agreed to donate. I 

    The premises at Block 145 Jalan Bukit Merah #01-1112 was allocated as an MP's office at a nominal rental of $5/-per month. It was not allocated to the Workers' Party as a party branch office. 